clear(1)                         User commands                        clear(1)

NAME
       clear - clear the terminal screen

SYNOPSIS
       clear [-x] [-T type]

       clear -V

DESCRIPTION
       clear clears your terminal's screen and its scrollback buffer, if any.
       clear retrieves the terminal type from the environment variable TERM,
       then consults the terminfo terminal capability database entry for that
       type to determine how to perform these actions.

       The capabilities to clear the screen and scrollback buffer are named
       "clear" and "E3", respectively.  The latter is a user-defined
       capability, applying an extension mechanism introduced in ncurses 5.0
       (1999).

OPTIONS
       clear recognizes the following options.

       -T type  produces instructions suitable for the terminal type.
                Normally, this option is unnecessary, because the terminal
                type is inferred from the environment variable TERM.  If this
                option is specified, clear ignores the environment variables
                LINES and COLUMNS as well.

       -V       reports the version of ncurses associated with this program
                and exits with a successful status.

       -x       prevents clear from attempting to clear the scrollback buffer.

HISTORY
       A clear command using the termcap database and library appeared in 2BSD
       (1979).  Eighth Edition Unix (1985) later included it.

       The commercial Unix arm of AT&T adapted a different BSD program (tset)
       to make a new command, tput, and replaced the clear program with a
       shell script that called "tput clear".

           /usr/bin/tput ${1:+-T$1} clear 2> /dev/null
           exit

       In 1989, when Keith Bostic revised the BSD tput command to make it
       similar to AT&T's tput, he added a clear shell script as well.

           exec tput clear

       The remainder of the script in each case is a copyright notice.

       In 1995, ncurses's clear began by adapting BSD's original clear command
       to use terminfo.  The E3 extension came later.

       o   In June 1999, xterm provided an extension to the standard control
           sequence for clearing the screen.  Rather than clearing just the
           visible part of the screen using
               printf '\033[2J'

           one could clear the scrollback buffer using
               printf '\033[3J'

           "XTerm Control Sequences" documents this feature as originating
           with xterm.

       o   A few other terminal emulators adopted it, such as PuTTY in 2006.

       o   In April 2011, a Red Hat developer submitted a patch to the Linux
           kernel, modifying its console driver to do the same thing.
           Documentation of this change, appearing in Linux 3.0, did not
           mention xterm, although that program was cited in the Red Hat bug
           report (#683733) motivating the feature.

       o   Subsequently, more terminal developers adopted the feature.  The
           next relevant step was to change the ncurses clear program in 2013
           to incorporate this extension.

       o   In 2013, the E3 capability was not exercised by "tput clear".  That
           oversight was addressed in 2016 by reorganizing tput to share its
           logic with clear and tset.

PORTABILITY
       Neither IEEE Std 1003.1/The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 7
       (POSIX.1-2008) nor X/Open Curses Issue 7 documents tset or reset.

       The latter documents tput, which could be used to replace this utility
       either via a shell script or by an alias (such as a symbolic link) to
       run tput as clear.

SEE ALSO
       tput(1), xterm(1), terminfo(5)

ncurses 6.4                       2023-10-01                          clear(1)
