GP(1)                       General Commands Manual                      GP(1)

NAME
       gp - The PARI calculator

SYNOPSIS
       gp [-s stacksize] [-p primelimit] [--emacs] [-f|--fast] [-q|--quiet]
       [-D|--default key=val] [--help] [--test] [--texmacs] [--version]
       [--version-short] [ file1 file2 ...]


DESCRIPTION
       Invokes the PARI-GP calculator gp; gp is an advanced programmable
       calculator, specializing in number theory, which computes symbolically
       as long as possible, numerically where needed, and contains a wealth of
       arithmetic functions: factorizations, elliptic curves, Galois theory,
       class field theory, modular forms, etc.  Commands, written in the GP
       scripting language, are input interactively or loaded from files.

       If present at the end of the command line, files 'file1', 'file2', ...
       are loaded on startup; they must be written in the GP language.


OPTIONS
       Command line options are available in both short form (-f) and POSIX-
       like (--fast). Numeric arguments can be followed by a modifier k , M or
       G at the user's convenience; in that case the argument is multiplied by
       10^3, 10^6, or 10^9 respectively.


       -f, --fast
              Fast start (or factory settings). Do not read .gprc (see below)
              upon startup.

       -p limit
              [DEPRECATED] Upon startup, gp computes a table of small primes
              used in number-theoretic applications. If primelimit is set, the
              table include primes up to that bound instead of the default (=
              1048576). It is now mostly useless to change this value.

       -q, --quiet
              Quiet mode. Do not print headers or history numbers and do not
              say goodbye.


       -D, --default key=val
              performs default(key, val); on startup, overriding values from
              the gprc preferences file. 'val' must be a constant value and is
              not allowed to involve any computation (e.g. 1+1 is forbidden).
              Any number of such default-setting statements may appear on the
              command line. A key may be set multiple times, the last setting
              taking precedence


       -s limit
              Size of gp internal stack allocated on startup. When gp runs out
              of space, it interrupts the current computation and raises a
              stack overflow exception. If this occurs frequently, start with
              a bigger stack. The stack size can also be increased from within
              gp, using default(parisize,limit); it is convenient to set
              parisize from your .gprc to that the setting is persistent
              across sessions; a value of 80MB is sensible.  We strongly
              advise to also set parisizemax to a positive, much larger, value
              in your .gprc (about what you believe your machine can stand,
              usually half the available RAM or so): this strives to fit
              computation in the parisize range but allows it to temporarily
              go beyond it (up to parisizemax).  Note that computations with a
              smaller stack may be more efficient due to better data locality.
              Finally, threadsize and threadsizemax play analogous roles in
              the parallel version of gp.


       --emacs
              gp can be run in an Emacs shell (see GP User's manual for
              details). This flag is then required for smooth interaction with
              the PariEmacs package (pari.el). It is set automatically by the
              pari.el package, and will produce display oddities if you set it
              outside of an Emacs session.

       --help print a summary of available command-line options.

       --test run gp in test mode: suppress printing of history numbers and
              wrap long output lines (to get readable diff output). For
              benches only.

       --texmacs
              gp can be run from a TeXmacs frontend. This flag is set by
              TeXmacs, to enable special purpose communication channels. Do
              not set it yourself.


       --version
              output version info (banner) then exit.


       --version-short
              output version number then exit.


USE
       ?      to get online help.

       ??     to get extended online help (more precisely, to call the
              external help program, gphelp by default)

       quit   (or \q), or EOF (Ctrl-D) to quit gp.

       The following works only when gp was linked with GNU readline library:

       arrow keys
              for editing and viewing the input history.

       TAB
               for automatic completion


MANUALS
       The following material is included in the standard distribution
       (originally in TeX format) and can also be downloaded at
              https://pari.math.u-bordeaux.fr/doc.html
       or viewed online at
              https://pari.math.u-bordeaux.fr/dochtml/html/


       The User's Guide to PARI/GP
              (users.dvi)

       The User's Guide to the PARI library
              (library.dvi)

       The Developer's Guide to the PARI library
              (develop.dvi)

       PARI/GP, a tutorial
              (tutorial.dvi)

       PARI/GP reference cards
              (refcard*.dvi)


FILES
       gp     main executable

       $HOME/.gprc
              (or $GPRC if set) user preference file, read at beginning of
              execution by each gp shell. A default gprc gprc.dft is provided
              with the distribution. If this file cannot be found, /etc/gprc
              is checked instead.


       <logfile>
              a file used to log in all commands and results; default:
              pari.log (you need to set the log default in your gprc or
              interactively)


       <psfile>
              a file used to dump PostScript drawings; default: pari.ps


       <histfile>
              a file where gp will keep a history of all input commands (you
              need to set the histfile default in the gprc file)


       gphelp default external help program (as above)

       *.gp   GP programs


ENVIRONMENT
       $GPRC  place to look for the user's preference file (gprc); if the file
              does not exist, we then check in $HOME/.gprc, /etc/gprc, and
              finally for a file named 'gprc' in PARI's datadir.


       $GP_DATA_DIR
              directory containing data installed by optional PARI packages.
              For example, the Galois resolvents files in directory galdata/
              needed by the polgalois function, in degrees 8 to 11; or the
              modular polynomials in seadata/ used by the ellap function for
              large base fields. This environment variable overrides PARI's
              'datadir', defined at Configure time.


       $GP_POSTSCRIPT_VIEWER
              an application able to display PostScript files, used by the
              plotps graphic engine. This engine is a fallback used to output
              hi-res plots even when no compatible graphical library was
              available on your platform at Configure time. (Dumps the graph
              to a temporary file, then open the file.)


       $GP_SVG_VIEWER
              an application able to display SVG images files, used by the
              plotsvg graphic engine. This engine is a fallback used to output
              hi-res plots even when no compatible graphical library was
              available on your platform at Configure time. (Dumps the graph
              to a temporary file, then open the file.)


       $GPHELP
              name of the external help program invoked by ?? and ???
              shortcuts.


       $GPTMPDIR
              name of the directory where temporary files will be generated.


HOME PAGE
       PARI's home page resides at
              https://pari.math.u-bordeaux.fr/


MAILING LISTS
       There are a number of mailing lists devoted to the PARI/GP package, and
       most feedback should be directed to those. See
              https://pari.math.u-bordeaux.fr/lists.html
       for details. The most important ones are:


       - pari-announce (moderated): for us to announce major version changes.

       - pari-dev: for everything related to the development of PARI,
       including suggestions, technical questions, bug reports or patch
       submissions.


       - pari-users: for discuss about everything else, in particular ask for
       help.

       To subscribe, send empty messages with a Subject: containing the word
       "subscribe" respectively to


          pari-announce-request@pari.math.u-bordeaux.fr

          pari-users-request@pari.math.u-bordeaux.fr

          pari-dev-request@pari.math.u-bordeaux.fr


BUG REPORTS
       Bugs should be submitted online to our Bug Tracking System, available
       from PARI's home page, or directly from the URL
              https://pari.math.u-bordeaux.fr/Bugs/
       Further instructions can be found on that page.


TRIVIA
       Despite the leading G, GP has nothing to do with GNU. The first version
       was originally called GPC, for Great Programmable Calculator. When
       people started calling it "the GPC Calculator", the trailing C was
       dropped.

       PARI has nothing to do with the French capital. The name is a pun about
       the project's early stages when the authors started to implement a
       library for "Pascal ARIthmetic" in the PASCAL programming language.
       They quickly switched to C.

       For the benefit of non-native French speakers, here's a slightly
       expanded explanation: Blaise Pascal (1623-1662) was a famous French
       mathematician and philosopher who was one of the founders of
       probability and devised one of the first "arithmetic machines". He once
       proposed the following "proof" of the existence of God for the
       unbelievers: whether He exists or not I lose nothing by believing in
       Him, whereas if He does and I misbehave... This is the so-called "pari
       de Pascal" (Pascal's Wager).

       Note that PARI also means "fairy" in Persian.


AUTHORS
       PARI was originally written by Christian Batut, Dominique Bernardi,
       Henri Cohen, and Michel Olivier in Laboratoire A2X (Universite Bordeaux
       I, France), and was maintained by Henri Cohen up to version 1.39.15
       (1995), and by Karim Belabas since then.

       A great number of people have contributed to the successive
       improvements which eventually resulted in the present version. See the
       AUTHORS file in the distribution.


SEE ALSO
       gap(1), gphelp(1), perl(1), readline(3), sage(1), tex(1), texmacs(1),


COPYING
       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
       under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
       Free Software Foundation.

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
       WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
       General Public License for more details.

       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
       with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
       675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

                               12 September 2024                         GP(1)
