MAN(1)                      General Commands Manual                     MAN(1)

NAME
     man - display manual pages

SYNOPSIS
     man [-acfhklw] [-C file] [-M path] [-m path] [-S subsection]
         [[-s] section] name ...

DESCRIPTION
     The man utility displays the manual pages entitled name.  Pages may be
     selected according to a specific category (section) or machine
     architecture (subsection).

     The options are as follows:

     -a      Display all matching manual pages.  Normally, only the first page
             found is displayed.

     -C file
             Use the specified file instead of the default configuration file.
             This permits users to configure their own manual environment.
             See man.conf(5) for a description of the contents of this file.

     -c      Copy the manual page to the standard output instead of using
             more(1) to paginate it.  This is done by default if the standard
             output is not a terminal device.

             When using -c, most terminal devices are unable to show the
             markup.  To print the output of man to the terminal with markup
             but without using a pager, pipe it to ul(1).  To remove the
             markup, pipe the output to col(1) -b instead.

     -f      A synonym for whatis(1).  It searches for name in manual page
             names and displays the header lines from all matching pages.  The
             search is case insensitive and matches whole words only.

     -h      Display only the SYNOPSIS lines of the requested manual pages.
             Implies -a and -c.

     -k      A synonym for apropos(1).  Instead of name, an expression can be
             provided using the syntax described in the apropos(1) manual.  By
             default, it displays the header lines of all matching pages.

     -l      A synonym for mandoc(1).  The name arguments are interpreted as
             filenames.  No search is done and file, path, section,
             subsection, and -w are ignored.  This option implies -a.

     -M path
             Override the list of standard directories which man searches for
             manual pages.  The supplied path must be a colon (`:') separated
             list of directories.  This search path may also be set using the
             environment variable MANPATH.

     -m path
             Augment the list of standard directories which man searches for
             manual pages.  The supplied path must be a colon (`:') separated
             list of directories.  These directories will be searched before
             the standard directories or the directories specified using the
             -M option or the MANPATH environment variable.

     -S subsection
             Only show pages for the specified machine(1) architecture.
             subsection is case insensitive.

             By default manual pages for all architectures are installed.
             Therefore this option can be used to view pages for one
             architecture whilst using another.

             This option overrides the MACHINE environment variable.

     [-s] section
             Only select manuals from the specified section.  The currently
             available sections are:

                   1         General commands (tools and utilities).
                   2         System calls and error numbers.
                   3         Library functions.
                   3p        perl(1) programmer's reference guide.
                   4         Device drivers.
                   5         File formats.
                   6         Games.
                   7         Miscellaneous information.
                   8         System maintenance and operation commands.
                   9         Kernel internals.

             If not specified and a match is found in more than one section,
             the first match is selected from the following list: 1, 8, 6, 2,
             3, 5, 7, 4, 9, 3p.

     -w      List the pathnames of all matching manual pages instead of
             displaying any of them.

     The options -IKOTW are also supported and are documented in mandoc(1).
     The options -fkl are mutually exclusive and override each other.

     Guidelines for writing man pages can be found in mdoc(7).

     The mandoc.db(5) database is used for looking up manual page entries.  In
     cases where the database is absent, outdated, or corrupt, man falls back
     to looking for files called name.section.  If both a formatted and an
     unformatted version of the same manual page, for example cat1/foo.0 and
     man1/foo.1, exist in the same directory, only the unformatted version is
     used.  The database is kept up to date with makewhatis(8), which is run
     by the weekly(8) maintenance script.

ENVIRONMENT
     MACHINE   As some manual pages are intended only for specific
               architectures, man searches any subdirectories, with the same
               name as the current architecture, in every directory which it
               searches.  Machine specific areas are checked before general
               areas.  The current machine type may be overridden by setting
               the environment variable MACHINE to the name of a specific
               architecture, or with the -S option.  MACHINE is case
               insensitive.

     MANPAGER  Any non-empty value of the environment variable MANPAGER is
               used instead of the standard pagination program, more(1).  If
               less(1) is used, the interactive :t command can be used to go
               to the definitions of various terms, for example command line
               options, command modifiers, internal commands, environment
               variables, function names, preprocessor macros, errno(2)
               values, and some other emphasized words.  Some terms may have
               defining text at more than one place.  In that case, the
               less(1) interactive commands t and T can be used to move to the
               next and to the previous place providing information about the
               term last searched for with :t.  The -O tag[=term] option
               documented in the mandoc(1) manual opens a manual page at the
               definition of a specific term rather than at the beginning.

     MANPATH   The standard search path used by man may be changed by
               specifying a path in the MANPATH environment variable.  The
               format of the path is a colon (`:') separated list of
               directories.  Invalid paths are ignored.  Overridden by -M,
               ignored if -l is specified.

               If MANPATH begins with a colon, it is appended to the default
               list; if it ends with a colon, it is prepended to the default
               list; or if it contains two adjacent colons, the standard
               search path is inserted between the colons.  If none of these
               conditions are met, it overrides the standard search path.

     PAGER     Specifies the pagination program to use when MANPAGER is not
               defined.  If neither PAGER nor MANPAGER is defined, more(1) -s
               is used.

FILES
     /etc/man.conf  default man configuration file

EXIT STATUS
     The man utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.  See
     mandoc(1) for details.

EXAMPLES
     Format a page for pasting extracts into an email message -- avoid
     printing any UTF-8 characters, reduce the width to ease quoting in
     replies, and remove markup:

           $ man -T ascii -O width=65 pledge | col -b

     Read a typeset page in a PDF viewer:

           $ MANPAGER=mupdf man -T pdf lpd

SEE ALSO
     apropos(1), col(1), mandoc(1), ul(1), whereis(1), man.conf(5), mdoc(7)

STANDARDS
     The man utility is compliant with the IEEE Std 1003.1-2008 ("POSIX.1")
     specification.

     The flags [-aCcfhIKlMmOSsTWw], as well as the environment variables
     MACHINE, MANPAGER, and MANPATH, are extensions to that specification.

HISTORY
     A man command first appeared in Version 3 AT&T UNIX.

     The -w option first appeared in Version 7 AT&T UNIX; -f and -k in 4BSD;
     -M in 4.3BSD; -a in 4.3BSD-Tahoe; -c and -m in 4.3BSD-Reno; -h in
     4.3BSD-Net/2; -C in NetBSD 1.0; -s and -S in OpenBSD 2.3; and -I, -K, -l,
     -O, and -W in OpenBSD 5.7.  The -T option first appeared in AT&T
     System III UNIX and was also added in OpenBSD 5.7.

Linux 4.14.186+            $Mdocdate: March 9 2019 $           Linux 4.14.186+
