
[[
Bing syntax



contains:

The contains: operator focuses Bing results on pages that include links to certain filetypes.

Example: search engine optimization contains:pdf

filetype:

The filetype: operator only returns pages having a specified file type.

Example: sky diving filetype:pdf


[

https://www.sidegains.com/search-engines/bing-search-operators-cheat-sheet/#:~:text=The%20syntax%20for%20all%20operators%20must%20be%20precise.,answer%20for%20the%20term%20you%20pair%20it%20with.

    Skip to main content
    Skip to primary sidebar
    Skip to footer

SideGains Logo

SideGains

Blogging Tips & Tutorials
Home » Search Engines » Bing Search Operators Cheat Sheet: The Ultimate Guide
Bing Search Operators Cheat Sheet: The Ultimate Guide

Last Updated on 15th April 2021 by Paul

If Bing is your go-to search engine, you should know there are special commands you can add to your searches to generate way more accurate results: search operators.

I’m going to give you a definitive list that includes every Bing search operator currently in use, clear instruction on what each one does and an explanation about how to use them all.

Additionally I’ll show you some practical examples that combine search operators to give you ultra-powerful results from Bing searches!
Table of Contents

    What Are Search Operators?
    Search Operators & Options
    Bing Advanced Search Options

What Are Search Operators?

If you’ve never heard of search operators before and don’t know what they are, I’ve written a detailed overview here: What are Search Operators? If you’re pressed for time though, I’ll summarize below.

When you use a search engine to make a search, you often get millions of results. Most of them pretty accurately match what you’re looking for right?

However, if you’re looking for something very specific, broad searches create a lot of results that you have to sift through to find a result that specifically answers your needs.

In cases like these, search operators filter out the noise to return laser-targeted results.

So what are they?

Search operators are very powerful commands you add to your queries to tell a search engine to return a very specific result set. So instead of seeing millions of results for your search, you only see results that match precisely what you’re looking for.

There are many of them and they can be combined together to make your searches incredibly powerful.
Bing Advanced Search Operators & Options

You can fine tune the results in Bing for any search you make by combining what you’re searching for with an operator. If you want to refine them even further you can add options.

Operators are like advanced keywords that help to focus your searches. Options are symbols that further extend searches.

Let’s take a look at the operators that Bing allows you to use first.
Operators

The syntax for all operators must be precise. All operators are followed by a colon. There are no spaces immediately before or after the colon.
contains:

The contains: operator focuses Bing results on pages that include links to certain filetypes.

Example: search engine optimization contains:pdf
Bing contains: Search Operator
define:

Using define: in a Bing search delivers an instant answer for the term you pair it with. It’s effectively a way to request a definition of a word or phrase, as a type of dictionary function. This is how to use it:

Example: define:zeitgeist
Bing define: Operator
domain:

domain: limits search results to the specified domain.

Example: domain:sidegains.com seo:
Bing domain: Operator
feed:

feed: returns the URLs for RSS or Atom feeds relating to the search term you request.

Example: feed:link building
Bing feed: Operator
filetype:

The filetype: operator only returns pages having a specified file type.

Example: sky diving filetype:pdf
Bing filetype: Search Operator
imagesize:

imagesize: calls results directly from Bing Images. To use it you provide a search term combined with the imagesize: operator and one of the following options:
imagesize: Option	Function
small	Width less than 200 pixels and height less than 200 pixels.
medium	Width between 200 pixels and 500 pixels. Height between 200 pixels and 500 pixels.
large	Width greater than 200 pixels. Height greater than 200 pixels.

Example: seo imagesize:large
Bing Search Operators - imagesize:
inanchor:

inanchor: lists all pages that include the term that follows it in the anchor text of any links on the indexed page.

Example: inanchor:sky diving
Bing inanchor: Operator

The word order of the inanchor: text is respected. So in this example, Bing is looking for pages that contain the anchor text “sky” followed by “diving”.
inbody:

The inbody: operator lists all pages indexed in Bing that contain the proceeding term within metadata of the actual page content.

Example: inbody:weather
Bing inbody: Search Operator
instreamset:

instreamset: looks to see if a specific string appears in one or more page properties. It’s similar to intitle:, inbody:, and inanchor:, albeit more general. However, you can tell it specifically to look at one or all page properties by placing them in parethesis.

Example: instreamset:(title url):soccer
Bing instreamset: Operator

Other examples might be:

    instreamset:(body):soccer
    instreamset:(anchor):soccer
    instreamset:(url):soccer
    instreamset:(title):soccer

You can also use combinations of any of the above with instreamset: if you need more flexibility than intitle:, inbody:, and inanchor: provide.

Example: instreamset:(body url title):soccer
intitle:

Using the intitle: operator lists all indexed pages that contain the term following it in their metadata title.

So for example, using intitle:seo in Bing returns all sites having the term “seo” in their meta title:

Example: intitle:seo
Bing intitle: Operator
ip:

Searching Bing with the ip: operator combined with a keyword returns results from indexed pages hosted at the IP address you pass. address

Example: ip:35.186.243.87 soccer
Bing ip: Operator

You’ll notice from the image that this pulls all indexed pages hosted at the specified IP relating to the search term “soccer”. The search has pulled results from different domains that are hosted on the same server.
language:

The language: operator is useful for keyword searches where you require results in a specific language.

Example: futbol language:es
Bing language: Search Operator

Reference: Bing Language Codes
site:

site: combined with a domain name shows you all the pages from a specific domain indexed in Bing. Below is a result using it with sidegains.com.

Example: site:sidegains.com
Bing site: Operator

The site: operator only returns subdomain results up to two levels deep. This means it won’t return results from one.example.of.sidegains.com but will return results them one.example.sidegains.com.
url:

url: combined with a domain name or a URL shows you whether or not a specific domain or URL is indexed in Bing. Here’s a result using it with sidegains.com.

Example: url:sidegains.com
Bing url: Operator
Bing Advanced Search Options

Search options help to further refine your search results. The following option symbols streamline results to help you find waht you’re looking for more quickly.
Symbol	Example	Effect
” “	“search engine optimization”	Returns pages indexed in Bing that exactly match your query. your query must be placed between the quotes.
+	soccer +fifa	Returns pages containing all search terms preceded by the + symbol.
()	(soccer clubs california)	Returns indexed pages containing a group of words.
AND or &	soccer AND teams	Returns all indexed pages containing the keyword or keyword phrases.
NOT or –	soccer -fifa	Returns all pages that do not contain the search terms you specify.
OR or |	kindle OR ipad	Returns all pages containing either of the search terms or phrases you specify.
Bing Advanced Search Options

You must capitalize the NOT and OR options when you use them or Bing will ignore them.

That’s it for now.

Paul
Bing Search Operators Cheat Sheet

Any questions about Bing search operators? Write your questions in the comment section below… or feel free to leave a comment!

Filed Under: Search Engines Tagged With: Bing, Search, Search Tools
Reader Interactions
Comments

    Avatar for RichRich says

    Ok thanks Paul.
    Reply

    Avatar for RichRich says

    Great list! How about an inurl command for Bing? I don’t see it.
    Reply

        Avatar for PaulPaul says

        Hi Rich. Thanks for your comment.

        Sadly “inurl:” doesn’t work in Bing searches… Microsoft suspended it in 2007 to stop nefarious data mining practises and it was never unsuspended.
        Reply

Leave a Reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment *

Name *

Email *

Website

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Primary Sidebar

Disclosure: This page contains affiliate links from which I may make a commission at no cost to you. See how I make money for more information.

Paul Franklin - SideGains

My name’s Paul.

I’ve been using WordPress to build blogs since 2005. SideGains condenses my 15+ years of experience of blogging, SEO and PPC in one place… I hope it helps YOU!

Find out more about SideGains, what makes me tick & why I started this blog.
SiteGround Banner
WP Engine Banner
SEO PowerSuite - all-in-one SEO tool
Sign Up to Access All My FREE Tools

    Blog Post Formatting Guide
    Blogging Goals Planner
    Google Analytics Dashboard Sheet

Footer
About SideGains

SideGains is designed to give you the blogging tips & tools you need to create an online income outside of the 9 to 5.

Find out more about SideGains, what makes me tick & why I began the SideGains project.
Information

    How SideGains Makes Money
    Privacy
    Contact Me
    SideGains HTML Sitemap

Work With Me

    Hire Me!
    Guest Writers

Copyright © 2022 SideGains.com
]

]]
