
e others/数学/编程/project_management/project_management--guidelines.txt
[[
https://www.inloox.com/company/blog/articles/project-management-guidelines-part-1-what-we-can-learn-from-project-failures/

Project Management Guidelines (Part 1) - What We Can Learn From Project Failures
Annalena Simonis, Thursday 27 May 2021 | Reading time: 5 min.
Leadership Project Management InLoox

Project Management Guidelines (Part 1) - What We Can Learn From Project Failures

What should you do when something doesn't work out as planned? Don’t worry, many smart minds before you have already thought about failure and came up with practical guidelines. Find out what you can learn from Murphy, Parkinson and others in our new blog series.

Projects are becoming increasingly complex. This may be due to the project itself, which is becoming more complex because of the multitude of parameters it contains. Another reason can be the influence of the project environment or a high number of stakeholders. A good project manager knows that some developments are out of their control. However, it is the way you react in such situations that can make the difference. When unexpected events occur, it is natural to feel stressed. The only way to relieve that stress is to remain calm about the situation and take action to keep the situation under control.

In this article, we present 8 project management guidelines that help you deal with failures. These popular “laws” from literature, business and research can help you deal more positively in your everyday work with situations in which not everything goes according to plan. We will show you how you can learn a lesson or two from these guidelines that will have a positive impact on your projects.

 

1. Lakein's Law: "Failing to plan is planning to fail."

Alan Lakein is an influential U.S. self-help author who focuses on personal time management. Lakein is a proponent of prioritizing one's tasks by dividing them into A, B, and C priorities in order to get the most important things done first. The law was originally stated as, "By failing to plan, you will gain very little, if any, time, and by failing to plan, you will almost certainly fail...." This leads to a paradoxical conclusion: precisely because we lack the time to plan, we should take the time to plan. With this, the author takes the view that, especially at the beginning of a project, one should not simply jump into it and warns against a "Just Do It" mentality. Project work is preceded by project planning, which is still too often interpreted as doing nothing and thus, unimportant.

 

2. Murphy's Law: "Anything that can go wrong will go wrong."

Probably the most famous of all management laws is attributed to American military pilot and aerospace engineer Edward Aloysius Murphy, Jr. Entire books have been devoted to explaining this law. Which is why there are numerous interpretations. Murphy's law states that anything that can go wrong will go wrong, unless you want to show that something is going wrong. The reason for this assumption is the observation that through selective perception, experience and evaluation, we usually experience things more distorted and negative than they actually are. As a result, everyone develops an individual level of risk tolerance, which a good project manager must also consider within their team. The project manager must work to balance the risk tolerances of the stakeholders with the level of uncertainty that is appropriate for the successful completion of the project. Anticipatory planning is required to manage the inevitable setbacks according to Murphy’s law. Attempts should be made from the outset to identify what could go wrong and to reduce or eliminate that possibility. The very process of identifying a risk eliminates its most damaging characteristic: surprise.

 

3. Constantine's Law: "A fool with a tool is still a fool."

Larry Constantine is a software engineer and designer who pioneered the Structured Design approach to software development. An important implication of his law is that "A fool with a tool is an even more dangerous fool." This assumption can be especially applied to relying on project management software for support. Constantine argues that a tool will not be effective until the concepts and processes behind it are fully understood. He illustrates his rule with the comparison to a school child who is allowed to use a calculator before it mastered to skill to calculate the basic functions without help. Accordingly, Constantine's Law states: Only when people understand the principles of project management, can they used automated tools effectively.

 

4. Augustine's Law: "A bad idea executed to perfection is still a bad idea."

Norman R. Augustine is a former chairman and CEO of a U.S. corporation and author of ironic observations on business and life, including a large number of "laws." His guiding principle is that no decision in project management is as important as the selection of projects to implement. Far too often, all sense of strategy and prioritization is lost in selecting the right projects. All projects must be carefully vetted to ensure they align with the organization's strategy and provide the most value relative to other potential projects. Then, as the project progresses, ongoing quality control plays an important role, because if complex processes are pushed through to the end without a quality check, the likelihood of losing all the value created increases. To prevent a project from failing, it is important to establish checkpoints early on.

 

Next week, in the second part of this blog series, we will introduce you to another four laws that you can apply to your everyday project work.

Also read: The 62 Most Inspiring Project Management Quotes
]]
[[
https://www.inloox.com/company/blog/articles/project-management-guidelines-part-2-communication-and-time-as-the-most-important-elements-of-the-project/

Project Management Guidelines (Part 2) -Communication and Time as the Most Important Elements of the Project
Annalena Simonis, Thursday 10 June 2021 | Reading time: 6 min.
LeadershipProject ManagementProductivityCollaboration

Project Management Guidelines (Part 2) -Communication and Time as the Most Important Elements of the Project

In our second article in the blog series Project Management Guidelines, we present four additional laws from clever minds in business, science and the military that you can apply to many situations in your day-to-day project work. Read more:

As the field of project management becomes more complex and our tasks more demanding, we may lose sight of basic principles. By following these 8 simple guiding principles, it is possible to improve project performance, provide more value to the organization, and hopefully make the project manager's job a little easier. Having introduced you to the laws of Lakein, Murphy, Constantines and Augustines in the last blog post in this series, here are four more guiding principles for your everyday project work.

 

5. Fitzgerald's Law: "There are two states to every large project: too early to detect and too late to stop."

Ernest Fitzgerald, an engineer, manager and former U.S. Air Force employee, is known for his whistleblower work exposing waste of resources in military contract management. One consequence of his work is the realization that projects have a momentum of their own. Once started, they are increasingly difficult to stop. His principle is therefore: no project without control. A common method for measuring project performance is earned value management. By establishing a project baseline and properly collecting and measuring project data, an earned value analysis can be executed. It compares the actual state of the project with the planned state. Through this method, corrective action can be taken before it is too late. Once the project has gone wrong, it should be terminated in time. There is often still the assumption that a canceled project is a failed project. In fact, a planned project cancellation can save a lot of money. Instead of putting more money into project that is doomed to fail, a good project manager should recognize the situation early and act accordingly. A project that is not working zum well should never be considered "too late to cancel."

 
6. Parkinson's Law: "Work expands to fill available time."

C. Northcote Parkinson was a teacher and writer who caught the public's attention in the mid-1950s with his satirical writings about government and business. His law, which originally stated, "Work expands to fill the time available for its completion," still has far-reaching implications for projects today. Parkinson believed that if you give a person an hour to complete a task, it will take them an hour; if you give them a day, it will take them a day. The same person will theoretically deliver in the shortest amount of time if they have the least amount of time. For our project management, this means that the only way we can hope to overcome this aspect of human nature is to impose tight but realistic deadlines on each element of the project. In many projects, software is used to create a Gantt chart, and the project begins with a poor idea of the actual sequence of activities. However, since we lack some information at the beginning, each activity must be treated as if it was critical, resulting in a high level of wasted effort. According to Parkinson's Law, most people will start each assigned activity on its latest start date, using up all time buffers and making all paths critical. In our blog post "Parkinson's Law: Why we Waste so Much Time and How to Improve Time Management" you can read three useful InLoox tips on how to better manage time according to Parkinson's law with our PM software.

 
7. Kinser's Law: "About the time you're done with something, you know enough to get started with it."

James C. Kinser was an engineer, efficiency expert, and all-rounder. Raised in the Southern Appalachian tradition of storytelling, he knew that the best way to teach something was to tell a story. That’s why, he used to say, "If you don't write it down, you won't remember it when you need it." With his guiding principle, he names the importance of "prototyping" and argues that no matter what you start, you can't get it right at the first time. Imagine you want to build three wooden shelves yourself. Instead of cutting all the material right away and finishing all the shelves at the same time, you build one of the shelves first, then figure out what you did wrong so you could do better on the others. By using this method, you will take less time and have a better result in the end. Kinser believes that you can't consider a project complete if you haven't learned from it. For this reason, be sure to take the time for a lessons learned meeting after each project completion. The project manager can then summarize all the lessons learned in a project completion report, which can be used as a planning checklist for the next project.

 
8 Graham's Law: "If they know nothing about what you do, they suspect you do nothing."

Robert J. Graham is a professor, consultant and author of many books in the field of project management with a focus on people and effective communication. It is common knowledge that about 90% of a project manager's time is spent on communication, and yet this is one of the simplest and also most underestimated aspects of a common project plan. In most cases, the communication management plan should be the first project management element created after the project charter, -This is important as it governs the interaction with all project stakeholders for planning and the entire project lifecycle. Another weak point in the project, can be too high expectations of the stakeholders. These often lead to the assumption that the project performance is insufficient or that the project will fail. In most cases, however, the problem is not with the project, but with the unrealistic expectations of the stakeholders themselves. Again, an open communication strategy is needed to adjust expectations. Another corollary to Graham's Law is, "If someone tells you too much about what they're doing, they may actually be doing nothing." So be mindful of how much, when, and what you communicate. Less is sometimes more when the information is delivered in a targeted way.

 

Read similar articles:

    Project Management Guidelines (Part 1) - What We Can Learn From Project Failures
    The 62 Most Inspiring Project Management Quotes

Subscribe to our newsletter
How can I unsubscribe?

]]
[[
https://www.inloox.com/company/blog/articles/the-62-most-inspiring-project-management-quotes/

The 62 Most Inspiring Project Management Quotes
Linh Tran, Monday 25 January 2016 | Reading time: 7 min.
Project Management

The 62 Most Inspiring Project Management Quotes

Motivational quotes are extremely popular, it’s not a coincidence that the hashtag #MondayMotivation is trending on Twitter every Monday. Why are quotes so motivating? It’s because they usually come from important people, often people who are leaders in their respective fields, and like to share their wisdom and experience with others. Over time, we have stumbled across quite a lot of inspiring quotes on all aspects of project management that are worth sharing with our readers. 

Without further ado, here are 62 project management quotes to inspire and motivate you:

Planning

    "Let our advance worrying become advance thinking and planning." ~ Winston Churchill 
    "It's a bad plan that admits of no modification." ~ Publilius Syrus 
    "Plans are worthless. Planning is essential." ~ Dwight D. Eisenhower 
    "Expect the best, plan for the worst, and prepare to be surprised." ~ Denis Waitley 
    "Plans are only good intentions unless they immediately degenerate into hard work." ~ Peter Drucker 
    "A good plan today is better than a perfect plan tomorrow." ~ Proverb 
    "First, have a definite, clear practical ideal; a goal, an objective. Second, have the necessary means to achieve your ends; wisdom, money, materials, and methods. Third, adjust all your means to that end." ~ Aristotle 
    "Those who plan do better than those who do not plan even though they rarely stick to their plan."  ~ Winston Churchill 
    "If you don't know where you are going. How can you expect to get there?" ~ Basil S. Walsh 
    "A good plan can help with risk analyses but it will never guarantee the smooth running of the project." ~ Bentley and Borman

Leadership

    "Management is doing things right; leadership is doing the right things." ~ Peter F. Drucker
    "One of the true tests of leadership is the ability to recognize a problem before it becomes an emergency." ~ Arnold Glasow 
    "The only real training for leadership is leadership." ~ Antony Jay 
    "The key to successful leadership today is influence not authority." ~ Kenneth Blanchard 
    "If your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, you are a leader." ~ John Quincy Adams 
    "Leadership is the art of getting someone else to do something you want done because he wants to do it." ~ Dwight D. Eisenhower 
    "Inventories can be managed but people must be lead." ~ Ross Perot 
    "Effective leaders help others to understand the necessity of change and to accept a common vision of the desired outcome." ~ John Kotter
    "People buy into the leader before they buy into the vision." ~ John C. Maxwell

Management

    "Get the right people. Then no matter what all else you might do wrong after that, the people will save you. That’s what management is all about." ~ Tom DeMarco
    "Management must manage!" ~ Harold Geneen 
    "Management is, above all, a practice where art, science, and craft meet." ~ Henry Mintzberg

Change

    "It is change, continuing change, inevitable change, that is the dominant factor in society today. No sensible decision can be made any longer without taking into account not only the world as it is, but the world as it will be." ~ Isaac Asimov 
    "Change is not made without inconvenience, even from worse to better." ~ Samuel Johnson
    "It is always easier to talk about change than to make it." ~ Alvin Toffler
    "It must be considered that there is nothing more difficult to carry out nor more doubtful of success nor more dangerous to handle than to initiate a new order of things." ~ Machiavelli
    "The reasonable man adapts himself to the world; the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself. Therefore, all progress depends on the unreasonable man." ~ George Bernard Shaw
    "There is nothing permanent except change." ~ Heraclitus

Communication

    "The single biggest problem in communication is the illusion that it has taken place." ~ George Bernard Shaw
    "The most important thing in communication is hearing what isn't said." ~ Peter Drucker
    "Brevity is the soul of wit." ~ William Shakespeare
    "Communication is a skill that you can learn. It's like riding a bicycle or typing. If you're willing to work at it, you can rapidly improve the quality of every part of your life." ~ Brian Tracy
    "To effectively communicate, we must realize that we are all different in the way we perceive the world and use this understanding as a guide to our communication with others." ~ Tony Robbins
    "My belief is that communication is the best way to create strong relationships." ~ Jada Pinkett Smith

Vision & Goals

    "The major reason for setting a goal is for what it makes of you to accomplish it. What it makes of you will always be the far greater value than what you get." ~ Jim Rohn 
    "Goals are dreams with deadlines." ~ Diana Scharf 
    "Vision without action is a dream. Action without vision is simply passing the time. Action with Vision is making a positive difference." ~ Joel Barker
    "He who has a ‘why’ to live for can bear with almost any ‘how’." ~ Friedrich Nietzsche

Failure

    "I feel that the most important requirement in success is learning to overcome failure. You must learn to tolerate it, but never accept it." ~ Reggie Jackson 
    "Failure is simply the opportunity to begin again, this time more intelligently." ~ Henry Ford 
    "Remember the two benefits of failure. First, if you do fail, you learn what doesn't work; and second, the failure gives you the opportunity to try a new approach." ~ Roger Von Oech 
    "The greatest barrier to success is the fear of failure." ~ Sven Goran Eriksson 
    "There are no failures - just experiences and your reactions to them." ~ Tom Krause 
    "Just because something doesn't do what you planned it to do doesn't mean it's useless." ~ Thomas Edison 
    "It's fine to celebrate success but it is more important to heed the lessons of failure." ~ Bill Gates
    "Far better is it to dare mighty things, to win glorious triumphs, even though checkered by failure... than to rank with those poor spirits who neither enjoy nor suffer much, because they live in a gray twilight that knows not victory nor defeat." ~ Theodore Roosevelt
    "I have not failed. I've just found 10,000 ways that won't work." ~ Thomas A. Edison
    "It is impossible to live without failing at something, unless you live so cautiously that you might as well not have lived at all, in which case you have failed by default." ~ J. K. Rowling
    "Ever tried. Ever failed. No matter. Try Again. Fail again. Fail better." ~ Samuel Beckett
    "Perseverance is failing 19 times and succeeding the 20th." ~ Julie Andrews

Time

    "Better three hours too soon than a minute too late." ~  William Shakespeare
    "Lost time is never found again." ~ Benjamin Franklin
    "Time is the most valuable thing a man can spend." ~ Theophrastus
    "Time is what we want most, but what we use worst." ~ William Penn
    "You may delay, but time will not." ~ Benjamin Franklin
    "Most people spend more time and energy going around problems than in trying to solve them." ~ Henry Ford
    "Much may be done in those little shreds and patches of time which every day produces, and which most men throw away." ~ Charles Caleb Colton

Teamwork

    "Unity is strength... when there is teamwork and collaboration, wonderful things can be achieved." ~ Mattie Stepanek
    "Talent wins games, but teamwork and intelligence wins championships." ~ Michael Jordan
    "As you navigate through the rest of your life, be open to collaboration. Other people and other people's ideas are often better than your own. Find a group of people who challenge and inspire you, spend a lot of time with them, and it will change your life." ~ Amy Poehler
    "Collaboration is important not just because it's a better way to learn. The spirit of collaboration is penetrating every institution and all of our lives. So learning to collaborate is part of equipping yourself for effectiveness, problem solving, innovation and life-long learning in an ever-changing networked economy." ~ Don Tapscott
    "Collaboration is the best way to work. It's only way to work, really. Everyone's there because they have a set of skills to offer across the board." ~ Antony Starr

Subscribe to our newsletter
How can I unsubscribe?

]]
[[
https://www.inloox.com/company/blog/articles/parkinson-s-law-why-we-waste-so-much-time-and-how-to-improve-time-management/

Parkinson's Law: Why we Waste so Much Time and How to Improve Time Management
Kathrin Jungwirth, Wednesday 27 March 2019 | Reading time: unknown
LeadershipProductivity

Parkinson's Law or Why we Waste so Much Time

Everyone knows the situation when unpleasant tasks are completed at the last minute. Find out what Parkinson's Law is all about and how you can use it for better time management.

    „Work expands exactly to the extent that time is available for its completion.“ ~ (C. Northcote Parkinson, 1955)

You probably know a couple of cases from your day-to-day work where we could easily transfer this quote to projects. At the beginning of a project, buffers are usually planned generously for the individual project phases in order to be able to react to unscheduled changes and not be delayed in the end. Nevertheless, at the end of the project there is stress and hectic activity and the on-schedule completion of the project becomes more and more questionable.
What is Parkinson's Law exactly?

The reason why it gets so stressful shortly before deadlines is often an overly generous time frame. This buffer often leads to procrastination and causes a lot of dawdling, especially at the beginning of the project as there is still enough time to complete all tasks on time. And so decisions are delayed and external partners remain on hold.

This phenomenon is very well described by Parkinson's Law: According to it, the time available to complete a task is always completely consumed. A task that should be completed in half a day can be extended over the whole day, if this corresponds to the given time frame. The founder of the theory, Cyril Northcote Parkinson, said:

    "Work can be stretched like rubber to fill the time available to it.”

According to this view, a task or project would never be completed with less effort than planned.
How does better time management work according to Parkinson's Law?

So how to make better use of time? We have collected three different tips for you:
Tip 1: Work with stage goals

To ensure that the project team does not run out of breath in long-term projects, it is important to celebrate intermediate goals - i.e. to work with several milestones. As a result, project team members in complex projects with numerous activities and tasks do not lose sight of important stages.

If, for example, you are planning a trade fair participation in your marketing department, then the following milestones could be relevant:

    Exhibition concept is defined
    Stand area booked & confirmation
    Orders are confirmed
    Marketing materials complete
    Preparations are finished
    End of exhibition
    Final meeting of team

With InLoox, the project management software for Outlook, web and smartphone, both you and your team always have all milestones in view. For this purpose, you create a clear Gantt Chart with activities, tasks and important milestones in the project planning.

Milestones are colored in the Gantt chart and structure the project plan into several stages
 
Tip 2: Efficient resource planning

Plan only as many employees as necessary for a project and choose the right people. That is, only those with the skills needed for the project.

With InLoox you store the most important skills for each team member. In this way, you can quickly locate the resources with the required know-how in the company and deploy them in the right place in the project according to their skills.

In the InLoox options, skills are created and assigned to resources.
 

When assembling the project team on the management page of your project, you can quickly and easily search the address book for people with the needed skills.

When assembling the project team in InLoox, you can quickly search the address book for people with relevant skills.
 
Tip 3: Reduce or eliminate buffers

In general, plan less time for meetings. Because tight schedules not only motivate you, but also your team. In this way, the most important points are processed efficiently and unnecessary excursion to irrelevant topics is reduced. 

Eliminate buffer times for individual tasks and avoid multitasking. Buffers are helpful margins for unscheduled changes, but they also have their downsides, as just described. According to Parkinson's law, there is no buffer left in the end and only delays in the project are passed on, but not earliness. This is why, for example, there are no single buffers in the critical chain method. Instead, there is an overall buffer for the project, while the individual tasks and processes are tightly synchronized to avoid procrastination. In this blog post you get a compact insight into the Critical Chain Method: The Difference between Critical Chain and Critical Path
 
Not an InLoox user yet? Efficiently organize your tasks online: for free with InLoox now! Starter: https://www.inloox.com/products/inloox-now/inloox-starter/ 

Free Online Project Management with InLoox now! Starter
Subscribe to our newsletter
How can I unsubscribe?

]]
[[

]]
