
e ../lots/NOTE/sound/ogg/ogg_doc6xiph.org/ogg-www.txt


[[
cd $my_tmp/wget_/
TODO:
    wget https://www.xiph.org/ogg/doc/rfc5334.txt
    wget https://www.xiph.org/ogg/doc/rfc3533.txt
wget_web_under__nolimit  https://www.xiph.org/ogg/doc/
wget_web_under__nolimit  https://www.xiph.org/ogg/doc/oggstream.html
wget_web_under__nolimit  https://www.xiph.org/ogg/doc/framing.html
wget_web_under__nolimit  https://www.xiph.org/ogg/doc/ogg-multiplex.html
wget_web_under__nolimit  https://www.xiph.org/ogg/doc/skeleton.html
  DONE @20251105
du -h www.xiph.org/ -a
4.0K    www.xiph.org/ogg/doc/index.html
24K     www.xiph.org/ogg/doc/oggstream.html
16K     www.xiph.org/ogg/doc/framing.html
20K     www.xiph.org/ogg/doc/ogg-multiplex.html
16K     www.xiph.org/ogg/doc/skeleton.html
84K     www.xiph.org/ogg/doc
8.0K    www.xiph.org/ogg/index.html
95K     www.xiph.org/ogg
4.0K    www.xiph.org/robots.txt
103K    www.xiph.org/

tar -cJvf ../lots/NOTE/sound/ogg/ogg_doc6xiph.org-20251105.txz   -C   $my_tmp/wget_/  www.xiph.org/
tar -tf ../lots/NOTE/sound/ogg/ogg_doc6xiph.org-20251105.txz
du -h ../lots/NOTE/sound/ogg/ogg_doc6xiph.org-20251105.txz
  24K

]]
===
[[
ogg specification
  https://www.xiph.org/ogg/
    https://www.xiph.org/ogg/doc/rfc5334.txt
    https://www.xiph.org/ogg/doc/rfc3533.txt
      The Ogg bitstream format is also documented in the following IETF RFCs:
      RFC 3533 The Ogg Encapsulation Format Version 0 (IETF mirror)
      RFC 5334 Ogg Media Types (IETF mirror)
===
The Ogg container format
Ogg is a multimedia container format, and the native file and stream format for the Xiph.org multimedia codecs. As with all Xiph.org technology is it an open format free for anyone to use.

As with most container formats it encapsulates raw compressed data and allows the interleaving of audio and video data inside a single convenient format. Other examples of container formats are Quicktime .mov, the MPEG program stream, and AVI.

In addition to encapsulation and interleave of multiple data streams, Ogg provides packet framing, error detection, and periodic timestamps for seeking, and in a small, bounded percentage bitrate overhead.

Ogg is a stream oriented container, meaning it can be written and read in one pass, making it a natural fit for internet streaming and use in processing pipelines. This stream orientation is the major design difference over other file-based container formats.

Documentation
Technical documentation on the Ogg container is available for the following areas:

  General structural overview
  Detailed header and parsing specification
  Issues and practices for multiplexed Ogg streams
  The Ogg Skeleton Metadata Bitstream
The recommended MIME type for Ogg files and network streams depends on content. For video, audio, and applications there's video/ogg, audio/ogg and application/ogg respectively.

  API Documentation for the libogg reference implementation
The Ogg bitstream format is also documented in the following IETF RFCs:
  RFC 3533 The Ogg Encapsulation Format Version 0 (IETF mirror)
  RFC 5334 Ogg Media Types (IETF mirror)
]]
[[
Ogg bitstream overview
This document serves as starting point for understanding the design and implementation of the Ogg container format. If you're new to Ogg or merely want a high-level technical overview, start reading here. Other documents linked from the index page give distilled technical descriptions and references of the container mechanisms. This document is intended to aid understanding.

Container format design points
Ogg is intended to be a simplest-possible container, concerned only with framing, ordering, and interleave. It can be used as a stream delivery mechanism, for media file storage, or as a building block toward implementing a more complex, non-linear container (for example, see the Skeleton or Annodex/CMML).

The Ogg container is not intended to be a monolithic 'kitchen-sink'. It exists only to frame and deliver in-order stream data and as such is vastly simpler than most other containers. Elementary and multiplexed streams are both constructed entirely from a single building block (an Ogg page) comprised of eight fields totalling twenty-eight bytes (the page header) a list of packet lengths (up to 255 bytes) and payload data (up to 65025 bytes). The structure of every page is the same. There are no optional fields or alternate encodings.

Stream and media metadata is contained in Ogg and not built into the Ogg container itself. Metadata is thus compartmentalized and layered rather than part of a monolithic design, an especially good idea as no two groups seem able to agree on what a complete or complete-enough metadata set should be. In this way, the container and container implementation are isolated from unnecessary metadata design flux.

Streaming
The Ogg container is primarily a streaming format, encapsulating chronological, time-linear mixed media into a single delivery stream or file. The design is such that an application can always encode and/or decode all features of a bitstream in one pass with no seeking and minimal buffering. Seeking to provide optimized encoding (such as two-pass encoding) or interactive decoding (such as scrubbing or instant replay) is not disallowed or discouraged, however no container feature requires nonlinear access of the bitstream.

Variable Bit Rate, Variable Payload Size
Ogg is designed to contain any size data payload with bounded, predictable efficiency. Ogg packets have no maximum size and a zero-byte minimum size. There is no restriction on size changes from packet to packet. Variable size packets do not require the use of any optional or additional container features. There is no optimal suggested packet size, though special consideration was paid to make sure 50-200 byte packets were no less efficient than larger packet sizes. The original design criteria was a 2% overhead at 50 byte packets, dropping to a maximum working overhead of 1% with larger packets, and a typical working overhead of .5-.7% for most practical uses.

Simple pagination
Ogg is a byte-aligned container with no context-dependent, optional or variable-length fields. Ogg requires no repacking of codec data. The page structure is written out in-line as packet data is submitted to the streaming abstraction. In addition, it is possible to implement both Ogg mux and demux as MT-hot zero-copy abstractions (as is done in the Tremor sourcebase).

Capture
Ogg is designed for efficient and immediate stream capture with high confidence. Although packets have no size limit in Ogg, pages are a maximum of just under 64kB meaning that any Ogg stream can be captured with confidence after seeing 128kB of data or less [worst case; typical figure is 6kB] from any random starting point in the stream.

Seeking
Ogg implements simple coarse- and fine-grained seeking by design.

Coarse seeking may be performed by simply 'moving the tone arm' to a new position and 'dropping the needle'. Rapid capture with accompanying timecode from any location in an Ogg file is guaranteed by the stream design. From the acquisition of the first timecode, all data needed to play back from that time code forward is ahead of the stream cursor.

Ogg implements full sample-granularity seeking using an interpolated bisection search built on the capture and timecode mechanisms used by coarse seeking. As above, once a search finds the desired timecode, all data needed to play back from that time code forward is ahead of the stream cursor.

Both coarse and fine seeking use the page structure and sequencing inherent to the Ogg format. All Ogg streams are fully seekable from creation; seekability is unaffected by truncation or missing data, and is tolerant of gross corruption. Seek operations are neither 'fuzzy' nor heuristic.

Seeking without use of an index is a major point of the Ogg design. There two primary reasons why Ogg transport forgoes an index:

An index is only marginally useful in Ogg for the complexity added; it adds no new functionality and seldom improves performance noticeably. Empirical testing shows that indexless interpolation search does not require many more seeks in practice than using an index would.
'Optional' indexes encourage lazy implementations that can seek only when indexes are present, or that implement indexless seeking only by building an internal index after reading the entire file beginning to end. This has been the fate of other containers that specify optional indexing.
In addition, it must be possible to create an Ogg stream in a single pass. Although an optional index can simply be tacked on the end of the created stream, some software groups object to end-positioned indexes and claim to be unwilling to support indexes not located at the stream beginning.

All this said, it's become clear that an optional index is a demanded feature. For this reason, the OggSkeleton now defines a proposed index.

Simple multiplexing
Ogg multiplexes streams by interleaving pages from multiple elementary streams into a multiplexed stream in time order. The multiplexed pages are not altered. Muxing an Ogg AV stream out of separate audio, video and data streams is akin to shuffling several decks of cards together into a single deck; the cards themselves remain unchanged. Demultiplexing is similarly simple (as the cards are marked).

The goal of this design is to make the mux/demux operation as trivial as possible to allow live streaming systems to build and rebuild streams on the fly with minimal CPU usage and no additional storage or latency requirements.

Continuous and Discontinuous Media
Ogg streams belong to one of two categories, "Continuous" streams and "Discontinuous" streams.

A stream that provides a gapless, time-continuous media type with a fine-grained timebase is considered to be 'Continuous'. A continuous stream should never be starved of data. Examples of continuous data types include broadcast audio and video.

A stream that delivers data in a potentially irregular pattern or with widely spaced timing gaps is considered to be 'Discontinuous'. A discontinuous stream may be best thought of as data representing scattered events; although they happen in order, they are typically unconnected data often located far apart. One example of a discontinuous stream types would be captioning such as Ogg Kate. Although it's possible to design captions as a continuous stream type, it's most natural to think of captions as widely spaced pieces of text with little happening between.

The fundamental reason for distinction between continuous and discontinuous streams concerns buffering.

Buffering
A continuous stream is, by definition, gapless. Ogg buffering is based on the simple premise of never allowing an active continuous stream to starve for data during decode; buffering works ahead until all continuous streams in a physical stream have data ready and no further.

Discontinuous stream data is not assumed to be predictable. The buffering design takes discontinuous data 'as it comes' rather than working ahead to look for future discontinuous data for a potentially unbounded period. Thus, the buffering process makes no attempt to fill discontinuous stream buffers; their pages simply 'fall out' of the stream when continuous streams are handled properly.

Buffering requirements in this design need not be explicitly declared or managed in the encoded stream. The decoder simply reads as much data as is necessary to keep all continuous stream types gapless and no more, with discontinuous data processed as it arrives in the continuous data. Buffering is implicitly optimal for the given stream. Because all pages of all data types are stamped with absolute timing information within the stream, inter-stream synchronization timing is always maintained without the need for explicitly declared buffer-ahead hinting.

Codec metadata
Ogg does not replicate codec-specific metadata into the mux layer in an attempt to make the mux and codec layer implementations 'fully separable'. Things like specific timebase, keyframing strategy, frame duration, etc, do not appear in the Ogg container. The mux layer is, instead, expected to query a codec through a centralized interface, left to the implementation, for this data when it is needed.

Though modern design wisdom usually prefers to predict all possible needs of current and future codecs then embed these dependencies and the required metadata into the container itself, this strategy increases container specification complexity, fragility, and rigidity. The mux and codec code becomes more independent, but the specifications become logically less independent. A codec can't do what a container hasn't already provided for. Novel codecs are harder to support, and you can do fewer useful things with the ones you've already got (eg, try to make a good splitter without using any codecs. Such a splitter is limited to splitting at keyframes only, or building yet another new mechanism into the container layer to mark what frames to skip displaying).

Ogg's design goes the opposite direction, where the specification is to be as simple, easy to understand, and 'proofed' against novel codecs as possible. When an Ogg mux layer requires codec-specific information, it queries the codec (or a codec stub). This trades a more complex implementation for a simpler, more flexible specification.

Stream structure metadata
The Ogg container itself does not define a metadata system for declaring the structure and interrelations between multiple media types in a muxed stream. That is, the Ogg container itself does not specify data like 'which steam is the subtitle stream?' or 'which video stream is the primary angle?'. This metadata still exists, but is stored by the Ogg container rather than being built into the Ogg container itself. Xiph specifies the 'Skeleton' metadata format for Ogg streams, but this decoupling of container and stream structure metadata means it is possible to use Ogg with any metadata specification without altering the container itself, or without stream structure metadata at all.

Frame accurate absolute position
Every Ogg page is stamped with a 64 bit 'granule position' that serves as an absolute timestamp for mux and seeking. A few nifty little tricks are usually also embedded in the granpos state, but we'll leave those aside for the moment (strictly speaking, they're part of each codec's mapping, not Ogg).

As previously mentioned above, granule positions are mapped into absolute timestamps by the codec, rather than being a hard timestamp. This allows maximally efficient use of the available 64 bits to address every sample/frame position without approximation while supporting new and previously unknown timebase encodings without needing to extend or update the mux layer. When a codec needs a novel timebase, it simply brings the code for that mapping along with it. This is not a theoretical curiosity; new, wholly novel timebases were deployed with the adoption of both Theora and Dirac. "Rolling INTRA" (keyframeless video) also benefits from novel use of the granule position.

Ogg stream arrangement
Packets, pages, and bitstreams
Ogg codecs place raw compressed data into packets. Packets are octet payloads containing the data needed for a single decompressed unit, eg, one video frame. Packets have no maximum size and may be zero length. They do not generally have any framing information; strung together, the unframed packets form a logical bitstream of codec data with no internal landmarks.


Packets of raw codec data are not typically internally framed. When they are strung together into a stream without any container to provide framing, they lose their individual boundaries. Seek and capture are not possible within an unframed stream, and for many codecs with variable length payloads and/or early-packet termination (such as Vorbis), it may become impossible to recover the original frame boundaries even if the stream is scanned linearly from beginning to end.

Logical bitstream packets are grouped and framed into Ogg pages along with a unique stream serial number to produce a physical bitstream. An elementary stream is a physical bitstream containing only a single logical bitstream. Each page is a self contained entity, although a packet may be split and encoded across one or more pages. The page decode mechanism is designed to recognize, verify and handle single pages at a time from the overall bitstream.


The primary purpose of a container is to provide framing for raw packets, marking the packet boundaries so the exact packets can be retrieved for decode later. The container also provides secondary functions such as capture, timestamping, sequencing, stream identification and so on. Not all of these functions are represented in the diagram.

In the Ogg container, pages do not necessarily contain integer numbers of packets. Packets may span across page boundaries or even multiple pages. This is necessary as pages have a maximum possible size in order to provide capture guarantees, but packet size is unbounded.

Ogg Bitstream Framing specifies the page format of an Ogg bitstream, the packet coding process and elementary bitstreams in detail.

Multiplexed bitstreams
Multiple logical/elementary bitstreams can be combined into a single multiplexed bitstream by interleaving whole pages from each contributing elementary stream in time order. The result is a single physical stream that multiplexes and frames multiple logical streams. Each logical stream is identified by the unique stream serial number stamped in its pages. A physical stream may include a 'meta-header' (such as the Ogg Skeleton) comprising its own Ogg page at the beginning of the physical stream. A decoder recovers the original logical/elementary bitstreams out of the physical bitstream by taking the pages in order from the physical bitstream and redirecting them into the appropriate logical decoding entity.


Multiple media types are mutliplexed into a single Ogg stream by interleaving the pages from each elementary physical stream.

Ogg Bitstream Multiplexing specifies proper multiplexing of an Ogg bitstream in detail.

Chaining
Multiple Ogg physical bitstreams may be concatenated into a single new stream; this is chaining. The bitstreams do not overlap; the final page of a given logical bitstream is immediately followed by the initial page of the next.

Each logical bitstream in a chain must have a unique serial number within the scope of the full physical bitstream, not only within a particular link or segment of the chain.

Continuous and discontinuous streams
Within Ogg, each stream must be declared (by the codec) to be continuous- or discontinuous-time. Most codecs treat all streams they use as either inherently continuous- or discontinuous-time, although this is not a requirement. A codec may, as part of its mapping, choose according to data in the initial header.

Continuous-time pages are stamped by end-time, discontinuous pages are stamped by begin-time. Pages in a multiplexed stream are interleaved in order of the time stamp regardless of stream type. Both continuous and discontinuous logical streams are used to seek within a physical stream, however only continuous streams are used to determine buffering depth; because discontinuous streams are stamped by start time, they will always 'fall out' at the proper time when buffering the continuous streams. See 'Examples' for an illustration of the buffering mechanism.

Multiplexing Requirements
Multiplexing requirements within Ogg are straightforward. When constructing a single-link (unchained) physical bitstream consisting of multiple elementary streams:

The initial header for each stream appears in sequence, each header on a single page. All initial headers must appear with no intervening data (no auxiliary header pages or packets, no data pages or packets). Order of the initial headers is unspecified. The 'beginning of stream' flag is set on each initial header.

All auxiliary headers for all streams must follow. Order is unspecified. The final auxiliary header of each stream must flush its page.

Data pages for each stream follow, interleaved in time order.

The final page of each stream sets the 'end of stream' flag. Unlike initial pages, terminal pages for the logical bitstreams need not occur contiguously; indeed it may not be possible for them to do so.

Each grouped bitstream must have a unique serial number within the scope of the physical bitstream.

chaining and multiplexing
Multiplexed and/or unmultiplexed bitstreams may be chained consecutively. Such a physical bitstream obeys all the rules of both chained and multiplexed streams. Each link, when unchained, must stand on its own as a valid physical bitstream. Chained streams do not mix or interleave; a new segment may not begin until all streams in the preceding segment have terminated.

Codec Mapping Requirements
Each codec is allowed some freedom in deciding how its logical bitstream is encapsulated into an Ogg bitstream (even if it is a trivial mapping, eg, 'plop the packets in and go'). This is the codec's mapping. Ogg imposes a few mapping requirements on any codec.

The framing specification defines 'beginning of stream' and 'end of stream' page markers via a header flag (it is possible for a stream to consist of a single page). A correct stream always consists of an integer number of pages, an easy requirement given the variable size nature of pages.

The first page of an elementary Ogg bitstream consists of a single, small 'initial header' packet that must include sufficient information to identify the exact CODEC type. From this initial header, the codec must also be able to determine its timebase and whether or not it is a continuous- or discontinuous-time stream. The initial header must fit on a single page. If a codec makes use of auxiliary headers (for example, Vorbis uses two auxiliary headers), these headers must follow the initial header immediately. The last header finishes its page; data begins on a fresh page.

As an example, Ogg Vorbis places the name and revision of the Vorbis CODEC, the audio rate and the audio quality into this initial header. Vorbis comments and detailed codec setup appears in the larger auxiliary headers.

Granule positions must be translatable to an exact absolute time value. As described above, the mux layer is permitted to query a codec or codec stub plugin to perform this mapping. It is not necessary for an absolute time to be mappable into a single unique granule position value.

Codecs are not required to use a fixed duration-per-packet (for example, Vorbis does not). the mux layer is permitted to query a codec or codec stub plugin for the time duration of a packet.

Although an absolute time need not be translatable to a unique granule position, a codec must be able to determine the unique granule position of the current packet using the granule position of a preceding packet.

Packets and pages must be arranged in ascending granule-position and time order.

Examples
[More to come shortly; this section is currently being revised and expanded]
Below, we present an example of a multiplexed and chained bitstream:

stream

In this example, we see pages from five total logical bitstreams multiplexed into a physical bitstream. Note the following characteristics:

Multiplexed bitstreams in a given link begin together; all of the initial pages must appear before any data pages. When concurrently multiplexed groups are chained, the new group does not begin until all the bitstreams in the previous group have terminated.
The ordering of pages of concurrently multiplexed bitstreams is goverened by timestamp (not shown here); there is no regular interleaving order. Pages within a logical bitstream appear in sequence order.
The Xiph Fish Logo is a trademark (™) of Xiph.Org.
These pages © 1994 - 2010 Xiph.Org. All rights reserved.
]]
[[
Ogg logical bitstream framing
Ogg bitstreams
The Ogg transport bitstream is designed to provide framing, error protection and seeking structure for higher-level codec streams that consist of raw, unencapsulated data packets, such as the Vorbis audio codec or Theora video codec.

Application example: Vorbis
Vorbis encodes short-time blocks of PCM data into raw packets of bit-packed data. These raw packets may be used directly by transport mechanisms that provide their own framing and packet-separation mechanisms (such as UDP datagrams). For stream based storage (such as files) and transport (such as TCP streams or pipes), Vorbis uses the Ogg bitstream format to provide framing/sync, sync recapture after error, landmarks during seeking, and enough information to properly separate data back into packets at the original packet boundaries without relying on decoding to find packet boundaries.

Design constraints for Ogg bitstreams
True streaming; we must not need to seek to build a 100% complete bitstream.
Use no more than approximately 1-2% of bitstream bandwidth for packet boundary marking, high-level framing, sync and seeking.
Specification of absolute position within the original sample stream.
Simple mechanism to ease limited editing, such as a simplified concatenation mechanism.
Detection of corruption, recapture after error and direct, random access to data at arbitrary positions in the bitstream.
Logical and Physical Bitstreams
A logical Ogg bitstream is a contiguous stream of sequential pages belonging only to the logical bitstream. A physical Ogg bitstream is constructed from one or more than one logical Ogg bitstream (the simplest physical bitstream is simply a single logical bitstream). We describe below the exact formatting of an Ogg logical bitstream. Combining logical bitstreams into more complex physical bitstreams is described in the Ogg bitstream overview. The exact mapping of raw Vorbis packets into a valid Ogg Vorbis physical bitstream is described in the Vorbis I Specification.

Bitstream structure
An Ogg stream is structured by dividing incoming packets into segments of up to 255 bytes and then wrapping a group of contiguous packet segments into a variable length page preceded by a page header. Both the header size and page size are variable; the page header contains sizing information and checksum data to determine header/page size and data integrity.

The bitstream is captured (or recaptured) by looking for the beginning of a page, specifically the capture pattern. Once the capture pattern is found, the decoder verifies page sync and integrity by computing and comparing the checksum. At that point, the decoder can extract the packets themselves.

Packet segmentation
Packets are logically divided into multiple segments before encoding into a page. Note that the segmentation and fragmentation process is a logical one; it's used to compute page header values and the original page data need not be disturbed, even when a packet spans page boundaries.

The raw packet is logically divided into [n] 255 byte segments and a last fractional segment of < 255 bytes. A packet size may well consist only of the trailing fractional segment, and a fractional segment may be zero length. These values, called "lacing values" are then saved and placed into the header segment table.

An example should make the basic concept clear:


raw packet:
  ___________________________________________
 |______________packet data__________________| 753 bytes

lacing values for page header segment table: 255,255,243

We simply add the lacing values for the total size; the last lacing value for a packet is always the value that is less than 255. Note that this encoding both avoids imposing a maximum packet size as well as imposing minimum overhead on small packets (as opposed to, eg, simply using two bytes at the head of every packet and having a max packet size of 32k. Small packets (<255, the typical case) are penalized with twice the segmentation overhead). Using the lacing values as suggested, small packets see the minimum possible byte-aligned overhead (1 byte) and large packets, over 512 bytes or so, see a fairly constant ~.5% overhead on encoding space.

Note that a lacing value of 255 implies that a second lacing value follows in the packet, and a value of < 255 marks the end of the packet after that many additional bytes. A packet of 255 bytes (or a multiple of 255 bytes) is terminated by a lacing value of 0:


raw packet:
  _______________________________
 |________packet data____________|          255 bytes

lacing values: 255, 0
Note also that a 'nil' (zero length) packet is not an error; it consists of nothing more than a lacing value of zero in the header.

Packets spanning pages
Packets are not restricted to beginning and ending within a page, although individual segments are, by definition, required to do so. Packets are not restricted to a maximum size, although excessively large packets in the data stream are discouraged.

After segmenting a packet, the encoder may decide not to place all the resulting segments into the current page; to do so, the encoder places the lacing values of the segments it wishes to belong to the current page into the current segment table, then finishes the page. The next page is begun with the first value in the segment table belonging to the next packet segment, thus continuing the packet (data in the packet body must also correspond properly to the lacing values in the spanned pages. The segment data in the first packet corresponding to the lacing values of the first page belong in that page; packet segments listed in the segment table of the following page must begin the page body of the subsequent page).

The last mechanic to spanning a page boundary is to set the header flag in the new page to indicate that the first lacing value in the segment table continues rather than begins a packet; a header flag of 0x01 is set to indicate a continued packet. Although mandatory, it is not actually algorithmically necessary; one could inspect the preceding segment table to determine if the packet is new or continued. Adding the information to the packet_header flag allows a simpler design (with no overhead) that needs only inspect the current page header after frame capture. This also allows faster error recovery in the event that the packet originates in a corrupt preceding page, implying that the previous page's segment table cannot be trusted.

Note that a packet can span an arbitrary number of pages; the above spanning process is repeated for each spanned page boundary. Also a 'zero termination' on a packet size that is an even multiple of 255 must appear even if the lacing value appears in the next page as a zero-length continuation of the current packet. The header flag should be set to 0x01 to indicate that the packet spanned, even though the span is a nil case as far as data is concerned.

The encoding looks odd, but is properly optimized for speed and the expected case of the majority of packets being between 50 and 200 bytes (note that it is designed such that packets of wildly different sizes can be handled within the model; placing packet size restrictions on the encoder would have only slightly simplified design in page generation and increased overall encoder complexity).

The main point behind tracking individual packets (and packet segments) is to allow more flexible encoding tricks that requiring explicit knowledge of packet size. An example is simple bandwidth limiting, implemented by simply truncating packets in the nominal case if the packet is arranged so that the least sensitive portion of the data comes last.

Page header
The headering mechanism is designed to avoid copying and re-assembly of the packet data (ie, making the packet segmentation process a logical one); the header can be generated directly from incoming packet data. The encoder buffers packet data until it finishes a complete page at which point it writes the header followed by the buffered packet segments.

capture_pattern
A header begins with a capture pattern that simplifies identifying pages; once the decoder has found the capture pattern it can do a more intensive job of verifying that it has in fact found a page boundary (as opposed to an inadvertent coincidence in the byte stream).


 byte value

  0  0x4f 'O'
  1  0x67 'g'
  2  0x67 'g'
  3  0x53 'S'  
stream_structure_version
The capture pattern is followed by the stream structure revision:


 byte value

  4  0x00
header_type_flag
The header type flag identifies this page's context in the bitstream:


 byte value

  5  bitflags: 0x01: unset = fresh packet
	               set = continued packet
	       0x02: unset = not first page of logical bitstream
                       set = first page of logical bitstream (bos)
	       0x04: unset = not last page of logical bitstream
                       set = last page of logical bitstream (eos)
absolute granule position
(This is packed in the same way the rest of Ogg data is packed; LSb of LSB first. Note that the 'position' data specifies a 'sample' number (eg, in a CD quality sample is four octets, 16 bits for left and 16 bits for right; in video it would likely be the frame number. It is up to the specific codec in use to define the semantic meaning of the granule position value). The position specified is the total samples encoded after including all packets finished on this page (packets begun on this page but continuing on to the next page do not count). The rationale here is that the position specified in the frame header of the last page tells how long the data coded by the bitstream is. A truncated stream will still return the proper number of samples that can be decoded fully.

A special value of '-1' (in two's complement) indicates that no packets finish on this page.


 byte value

  6  0xXX LSB
  7  0xXX
  8  0xXX
  9  0xXX
 10  0xXX
 11  0xXX
 12  0xXX
 13  0xXX MSB
stream serial number
Ogg allows for separate logical bitstreams to be mixed at page granularity in a physical bitstream. The most common case would be sequential arrangement, but it is possible to interleave pages for two separate bitstreams to be decoded concurrently. The serial number is the means by which pages physical pages are associated with a particular logical stream. Each logical stream must have a unique serial number within a physical stream:


 byte value

 14  0xXX LSB
 15  0xXX
 16  0xXX
 17  0xXX MSB
page sequence no
Page counter; lets us know if a page is lost (useful where packets span page boundaries).


 byte value

 18  0xXX LSB
 19  0xXX
 20  0xXX
 21  0xXX MSB
page checksum
32 bit CRC value (direct algorithm, initial val and final XOR = 0, generator polynomial=0x04c11db7). The value is computed over the entire header (with the CRC field in the header set to zero) and then continued over the page. The CRC field is then filled with the computed value.

(A thorough discussion of CRC algorithms can be found in "A Painless Guide to CRC Error Detection Algorithms" by Ross Williams ross@ross.net.)


 byte value

 22  0xXX LSB
 23  0xXX
 24  0xXX
 25  0xXX MSB
page_segments
The number of segment entries to appear in the segment table. The maximum number of 255 segments (255 bytes each) sets the maximum possible physical page size at 65307 bytes or just under 64kB (thus we know that a header corrupted so as destroy sizing/alignment information will not cause a runaway bitstream. We'll read in the page according to the corrupted size information that's guaranteed to be a reasonable size regardless, notice the checksum mismatch, drop sync and then look for recapture).


 byte value

 26 0x00-0xff (0-255)
segment_table (containing packet lacing values)
The lacing values for each packet segment physically appearing in this page are listed in contiguous order.


 byte value

 27 0x00-0xff (0-255)
 [...]
 n  0x00-0xff (0-255, n=page_segments+26)
Total page size is calculated directly from the known header size and lacing values in the segment table. Packet data segments follow immediately after the header.

Page headers typically impose a flat .25-.5% space overhead assuming nominal ~8k page sizes. The segmentation table needed for exact packet recovery in the streaming layer adds approximately .5-1% nominal assuming expected encoder behavior in the 44.1kHz, 128kbps stereo encodings.

The Xiph Fish Logo is a trademark (™) of Xiph.Org.
These pages © 1994 - 2005 Xiph.Org. All rights reserved.
]]
[[
Page Multiplexing and Ordering in a Physical Ogg Stream
The low-level mechanisms of an Ogg stream (as described in the Ogg Bitstream Overview) provide means for mixing multiple logical streams and media types into a single linear-chronological stream. This document specifies the high-level arrangement and use of page structure to multiplex multiple streams of mixed media type within a physical Ogg stream.

Design Elements
The design and arrangement of the Ogg container format is governed by several high-level design decisions that form the reasoning behind specific low-level design decisions.

Linear media
The Ogg bitstream is intended to encapsulate chronological, time-linear mixed media into a single delivery stream or file. The design is such that an application can always encode and/or decode a full-featured bitstream in one pass with no seeking and minimal buffering. Seeking to provide optimized encoding (such as two-pass encoding) or interactive decoding (such as scrubbing or instant replay) is not disallowed or discouraged, however no bitstream feature must require nonlinear operation on the bitstream.

Multiplexing
Ogg bitstreams multiplex multiple logical streams into a single physical stream at the page level. Each page contains an abstract time stamp (the Granule Position) that represents an absolute time landmark within the stream. After the pages representing stream headers (all logical stream headers occur at the beginning of a physical bitstream section before any logical stream data), logical stream data pages are arranged in a physical bitstream in strict non-decreasing order by chronological absolute time as specified by the granule position.

The only exception to arranging pages in strictly ascending time order by granule position is those pages that do not set the granule position value. This is a special case when exceptionally large packets span multiple pages; the specifics of handling this special case are described later under 'Continuous and Discontinuous Streams'.

Seeking
Ogg is designed to use an interpolated bisection search to implement exact positional seeking. Interpolated bisection search is a spec-mandated mechanism.

An index may improve objective performance, but it seldom improves subjective performance outside of a few high-latency use cases and adds no additional functionality as bisection search delivers the same functionality for both one- and two-pass stream types. For these reasons, use of indexes is discouraged, except in cases where an index provides demonstrable and noticeable performance improvement.

Seek operations are by absolute time; a direct bisection search must find the exact time position requested. Information in the Ogg bitstream is arranged such that all information to be presented for playback from the desired seek point will occur at or after the desired seek point. Seek operations are neither 'fuzzy' nor heuristic.

Although key frame handling in video appears to be an exception to "all needed playback information lies ahead of a given seek", key frames can still be handled directly within this indexless framework. Seeking to a key frame in video (as well as seeking in other media types with analogous restraints) is handled as two seeks; first a seek to the desired time which extracts state information that decodes to the time of the last key frame, followed by a second seek directly to the key frame. The location of the previous key frame is embedded as state information in the granulepos; this mechanism is described in more detail later.

Continuous and Discontinuous Streams
Logical streams within a physical Ogg stream belong to one of two categories, "Continuous" streams and "Discontinuous" streams. Although these are discussed in more detail later, the distinction is important to a high-level understanding of how to buffer an Ogg stream.

A stream that provides a gapless, time-continuous media type with a fine-grained timebase is considered to be 'Continuous'. A continuous stream should never be starved of data. Clear examples of continuous data types include broadcast audio and video.

A stream that delivers data in a potentially irregular pattern or with widely spaced timing gaps is considered to be 'Discontinuous'. A discontinuous stream may be best thought of as data representing scattered events; although they happen in order, they are typically unconnected data often located far apart. One possible example of a discontinuous stream types would be captioning. Although it's possible to design captions as a continuous stream type, it's most natural to think of captions as widely spaced pieces of text with little happening between.

The fundamental design distinction between continuous and discontinuous streams concerns buffering.

Buffering
Because a continuous stream is, by definition, gapless, Ogg buffering is based on the simple premise of never allowing any active continuous stream to starve for data during decode; buffering proceeds ahead until all continuous streams in a physical stream have data ready to decode on demand.

Discontinuous stream data may occur on a fairly regular basis, but the timing of, for example, a specific caption is impossible to predict with certainty in most captioning systems. Thus the buffering system should take discontinuous data 'as it comes' rather than working ahead (for a potentially unbounded period) to look for future discontinuous data. As such, discontinuous streams are ignored when managing buffering; their pages simply 'fall out' of the stream when continuous streams are handled properly.

Buffering requirements need not be explicitly declared or managed for the encoded stream; the decoder simply reads as much data as is necessary to keep all continuous stream types gapless (also ensuring discontinuous data arrives in time) and no more, resulting in optimum implicit buffer usage for a given stream. Because all pages of all data types are stamped with absolute timing information within the stream, inter-stream synchronization timing is always explicitly maintained without the need for explicitly declared buffer-ahead hinting.

Further details, mechanisms and reasons for the differing arrangement and behavior of continuous and discontinuous streams is discussed later.

Whole-stream navigation
Ogg is designed so that the simplest navigation operations treat the physical Ogg stream as a whole summary of its streams, rather than navigating each interleaved stream as a separate entity.

First Example: seeking to a desired time position in a multiplexed (or unmultiplexed) Ogg stream can be accomplished through a bisection search on time position of all pages in the stream (as encoded in the granule position). More powerful searches (such as a key frame-aware seek within video) are also possible with additional search complexity, but similar computational complexity.

Second Example: A bitstream section may consist of three multiplexed streams of differing lengths. The result of multiplexing these streams should be thought of as a single mixed stream with a length equal to the longest of the three component streams. Although it is also possible to think of the multiplexed results as three concurrent streams of different lengths and it is possible to recover the three original streams, it will also become obvious that once multiplexed, it isn't possible to find the internal lengths of the component streams without a linear search of the whole bitstream section. However, it is possible to find the length of the whole bitstream section easily (in near-constant time per section) just as it is for a single-media unmultiplexed stream.

Granule Position
Description
The Granule Position is a signed 64 bit field appearing in the header of every Ogg page. Although the granule position represents absolute time within a logical stream, its value does not necessarily directly encode a simple timestamp. It may represent frames elapsed (as in Vorbis), a simple timestamp, or a more complex bit-division encoding (such as in Theora). The exact encoding of the granule position is up to a specific codec.

The granule position is governed by the following rules:

Granule Position must always increase forward or remain equal from page to page, be unset, or be zero for a header page. The absolute time to which any correct sequence of granule position maps must similarly always increase forward or remain equal. (A codec may make use of data, such as a control sequence, that only affects codec working state without producing data and thus advancing granule position and time. Although the packet sequence number increases in this case, the granule position, and thus the time position, do not.)
Granule position may only be unset if there no packet defining a time boundary on the page (that is, if no packet in a continuous stream ends on the page, or no packet in a discontinuous stream begins on the page. This will be discussed in more detail under Continuous and Discontinuous streams).
A codec must be able to translate a given granule position value to a unique, deterministic absolute time value through direct calculation. A codec is not required to be able to translate an absolute time value into a unique granule position value.
Codecs shall choose a granule position definition that allows that codec means to seek as directly as possible to an immediately decodable point, such as the bit-divided granule position encoding of Theora allows the codec to seek efficiently to key frame without using an index. That is, additional information other than absolute time may be encoded into a granule position value so long as the granule position obeys the above points.
Example: timestamp
In general, a codec/stream type should choose the simplest granule position encoding that addresses its requirements. The examples here are by no means exhaustive of the possibilities within Ogg.

A simple granule position could encode a timestamp directly. For example, a granule position that encoded milliseconds from beginning of stream would allow a logical stream length of over 100,000,000,000 days before beginning a new logical stream (to avoid the granule position wrapping).

Example: framestamp
A simple millisecond timestamp granule encoding might suit many stream types, but a millisecond resolution is inappropriate to, eg, most audio encodings where exact single-sample resolution is generally a requirement. A millisecond is both too large a granule and often does not represent an integer number of samples.

In the event that audio frames are always encoded as the same number of samples, the granule position could simply be a linear count of frames since beginning of stream. This has the advantages of being exact and efficient. Position in time would simply be [granule_position] * [samples_per_frame] / [samples_per_second].

Example: samplestamp (Vorbis)
Frame counting is insufficient in codecs such as Vorbis where an audio frame [packet] encodes a variable number of samples. In Vorbis's case, the granule position is a count of the number of raw samples from the beginning of stream; the absolute time of a granule position is [granule_position] / [samples_per_second].

Example: bit-divided framestamp (Theora)
Some video codecs may be able to use the simple framestamp scheme for granule position. However, most modern video codecs introduce at least the following complications:

video frames are relatively far apart compared to audio samples; for this reason, the point at which a video frame changes to the next frame is usually a strictly defined offset within the frame 'period'. That is, video at 50fps could just as easily define frame transitions <.015, .035, .055...> as at <.00, .02, .04...>.
frame rates often include drop-frames, leap-frames or other rational-but-non-integer timings.
Decode must begin at a 'key frame' or 'I frame'. Keyframes usually occur relatively seldom.
The first two points can be handled straightforwardly via the fact that the codec has complete control mapping granule position to absolute time; non-integer frame rates and offsets can be set in the codec's initial header, and the rest is just arithmetic.

The third point appears trickier at first glance, but it too can be handled through the granule position mapping mechanism. Here we arrange the granule position in such a way that granule positions of key frames are easy to find. Divide the granule position into two fields; the most-significant bits are an absolute frame counter, but it's only updated at each key frame. The least significant bits encode the number of frames since the last key frame. In this way, each granule position both encodes the absolute time of the current frame as well as the absolute time of the last key frame.

Seeking to a most recent preceding key frame is then accomplished by first seeking to the original desired point, inspecting the granulepos of the resulting video page, extracting from that granulepos the absolute time of the desired key frame, and then seeking directly to that key frame's page. Of course, it's still possible for an application to ignore key frames and use a simpler seeking algorithm (decode would be unable to present decoded video until the next key frame). Surprisingly many player applications do choose the simpler approach.

granule position, packets and pages
Although each packet of data in a logical stream theoretically has a specific granule position, only one granule position is encoded per page. It is possible to encode a logical stream such that each page contains only a single packet (so that granule positions are preserved for each packet), however a one-to-one packet/page mapping is not intended to be the general case.

Because Ogg functions at the page, not packet, level, this once-per-page time information provides Ogg with the finest-grained time information is can use. Ogg passes this granule positioning data to the codec (along with the packets extracted from a page); it is the responsibility of codecs to track timing information at granularities finer than a single page.

start-time and end-time positioning
A granule position represents the instantaneous time location between two pages. However, continuous streams and discontinuous streams differ on whether the granulepos represents the end-time of the data on a page or the start-time. Continuous streams are 'end-time' encoded; the granulepos represents the point in time immediately after the last data decoded from a page. Discontinuous streams are 'start-time' encoded; the granulepos represents the point in time of the first data decoded from the page.

An Ogg stream type is declared continuous or discontinuous by its codec. A given codec may support both continuous and discontinuous operation so long as any given logical stream is continuous or discontinuous for its entirety and the codec is able to ascertain (and inform the Ogg layer) as to which after decoding the initial stream header. The majority of codecs will always be continuous (such as Vorbis) or discontinuous (such as Writ).

Start- and end-time encoding do not affect multiplexing sort-order; pages are still sorted by the absolute time a given granulepos maps to regardless of whether that granulepos represents start- or end-time.

Multiplex/Demultiplex Division of Labor
The Ogg multiplex/demultiplex layer provides mechanisms for encoding raw packets into Ogg pages, decoding Ogg pages back into the original codec packets, determining the logical structure of an Ogg stream, and navigating through and synchronizing with an Ogg stream at a desired stream location. Strict multiplex/demultiplex operations are entirely in the Ogg domain and require no intervention from codecs.

Implementation of more complex operations does require codec knowledge, however. Unlike other framing systems, Ogg maintains strict separation between framing and the framed bitstream data; Ogg does not replicate codec-specific information in the page/framing data, nor does Ogg blur the line between framing and stream data/metadata. Because Ogg is fully data-agnostic toward the data it frames, operations which require specifics of bitstream data (such as 'seek to key frame') also require interaction with the codec layer (because, in this example, the Ogg layer is not aware of the concept of key frames). This is different from systems that blur the separation between framing and stream data in order to simplify the separation of code. The Ogg system purposely keeps the distinction in data simple so that later codec innovations are not constrained by framing design.

For this reason, however, complex seeking operations require interaction with the codecs in order to decode the granule position of a given stream type back to absolute time or in order to find 'decodable points' such as key frames in video.

Unsorted Discussion Points
flushes around key frames? RFC suggestion: repaginating or building a stream this way is nice but not required

Appendix A: multiplexing examples
The Xiph Fish Logo is a trademark (™) of Xiph.Org.
These pages © 1994 - 2005 Xiph.Org. All rights reserved.
]]
[[
The Ogg Skeleton Metadata Bitstream
Overview
Ogg Skeleton provides structuring information for multitrack Ogg files. It is compatible with Ogg Theora and provides extra clues for synchronization and content negotiation such as language selection.

Ogg is a generic container format for time-continuous data streams, enabling interleaving of several tracks of frame-wise encoded content in a time-multiplexed manner. As an example, an Ogg physical bitstream could encapsulate several tracks of video encoded in Theora and multiple tracks of audio encoded in Speex or Vorbis or FLAC at the same time. A player that decodes such a bitstream could then, for example, play one video channel as the main video playback, alpha-blend another one on top of it (e.g. a caption track), play a main Vorbis audio together with several FLAC audio tracks simultaneously (e.g. as sound effects), and provide a choice of Speex channels (e.g. providing commentary in different languages). Such a file is generally possible to create with Ogg, it is however not possible to generically parse such a file, seek on it, understand what codecs are contained in such a file, and dynamically handle and play back such content.

Ogg does not know anything about the content it carries and leaves it to the media mapping of each codec to declare and describe itself. There is no meta information available at the Ogg level about the content tracks encapsulated within an Ogg physical bitstream. This is particularly a problem if you don't have all the decoder libraries available and just want to parse an Ogg file to find out what type of data it encapsulates (such as the "file" command under *nix to determine what file it is through magic numbers), or want to seek to a temporal offset without having to decode the data (such as on a Web server that just serves out Ogg files and parts thereof).

Ogg Skeleton is being designed to overcome these problems. Ogg Skeleton is a logical bitstream within an Ogg stream that contains information about the other encapsulated logical bitstreams. For each logical bitstream it provides information such as its media type, and explains the way the granulepos field in Ogg pages is mapped to time.

Ogg Skeleton is also designed to allow the creation of substreams from Ogg physical bitstreams that retain the original timing information. For example, when cutting out the segment between the 7th and the 59th second of an Ogg file, it would be nice to continue to start this cut out file with a playback time of 7 seconds and not of 0. This is of particular interest if you're streaming this file from a Web server after a query for a temporal subpart such as in http://example.com/video.ogv?t=7-59

Specification
How to describe the logical bitstreams within an Ogg container?
The following information about a logical bitstream is of interest to contain as meta information in the Skeleton:

the serial number: it identifies a content track
the mime type: it identifies the content type
other generic name-value fields that can provide meta information such as the language of a track or the video height and width
the number of header packets: this informs a parser about the number of actual header packets in an Ogg logical bitstream
the granule rate: the granule rate represents the data rate in Hz at which content is sampled for the particular logical bitstream, allowing to map a granule position to time by calculating "granulepos / granulerate"
the preroll: the number of past content packets to take into account when decoding the current Ogg page, which is necessary for seeking (vorbis has generally 2, speex 3)
the granuleshift: the number of lower bits from the granulepos field that are used to provide position information for sub-seekable units (like the keyframe shift in theora)
a basetime: it provides a mapping for granule position 0 (for all logical bitstreams) to a playback time; an example use: most content in professional analog video creation actually starts at a time of 1 hour and thus adding this additional field allows them retain this mapping on digitizing their content
a UTC time: it provides a mapping for granule position 0 (for all logical bitstreams) to a real-world clock time allowing to remember e.g. the recording or broadcast time of some content
How to allow the creation of substreams from an Ogg physical bitstream?
When cutting out a subpart of an Ogg physical bitstream, the aim is to keep all the content pages intact (including the framing and granule positions) and just change some information in the Skeleton that allows reconstruction of the accurate time mapping. When remultiplexing such a bitstream, it is necessary to take into account all the different contained logical bitstreams. A given cut-in time maps to several different byte positions in the Ogg physical bitstream because each logical bitstream has its relevant information for that time at a different location. In addition, the resolution of each logical bitstream may not be high enough to accommodate for the given cut-in time and thus there may be some surplus information necessary to be remuxed into the new bitstream.

The following information is necessary to be added to the Skeleton to allow a correct presentation of a subpart of an Ogg bitstream:

the presentation time: this is the actual cut-in time and all logical bitstreams are meant to start presenting from this time onwards, not from the time their data starts, which may be some time before that (because this time may have mapped right into the middle of a packet, or because the logical bitstream has a preroll or a keyframe shift)
the basegranule: this represents the granule number with which this logical bitstream starts in the remuxed stream and provides for each logical bitstream the accurate start time of its data stream; this information is necessary to allow correct decoding and timing of the first data packets contained in a logcial bitstream of a remuxed Ogg stream
Ogg Skeleton version 3.0 Format Specification
Adding the above information into an Ogg bitstream without breaking existing Ogg functionality and code requires the use of a logical bitstream for Ogg Skeleton. This logical bitstream may be ignored on decoding such that existing players can still continue to play back Ogg files that have a Skeleton bitstream. Skeleton enriches the Ogg bitstream to provide meta information about structure and content of the Ogg bitstream.

The Skeleton logical bitstream starts with an ident header that contains information about all of the logical bitstreams and is mapped into the Skeleton bos page. The first 8 bytes provide the magic identifier "fishead\0". After the fishead follows a set of secondary header packets, each of which contains information about one logical bitstream. These secondary header packets are identified by an 8 byte code of "fisbone\0". The Skeleton logical bitstream has no actual content packets. Its eos page is included into the stream before any data pages of the other logical bitstreams appear and contains a packet of length 0.

The fishead ident header looks as follows:


  0                   1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1| Byte
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | Identifier 'fishead\0'                                        | 0-3
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               | 4-7
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | Version major                 | Version minor                 | 8-11
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | Presentationtime numerator                                    | 12-15
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               | 16-19
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | Presentationtime denominator                                  | 20-23
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               | 24-27
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | Basetime numerator                                            | 28-31
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               | 32-35
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | Basetime denominator                                          | 36-39
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               | 40-43
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | UTC                                                           | 44-47
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               | 48-51
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               | 52-55
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               | 56-59
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               | 60-63
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

The version fields provide version information for the Skeleton track, currently being 3.0 (the number having evolved within the Annodex project).

Presentation time and basetime are specified as a rational number, the denominator providing the temporal resolution at which the time is given (e.g. to specify time in milliseconds, provide a denominator of 1000).

The fisbone secondary header packet looks as follows:


  0                   1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1| Byte
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | Identifier 'fisbone\0'                                        | 0-3
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               | 4-7
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | Offset to message header fields                               | 8-11
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | Serial number                                                 | 12-15
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | Number of header packets                                      | 16-19
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | Granulerate numerator                                         | 20-23
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               | 24-27
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | Granulerate denominator                                       | 28-31
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               | 32-35
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | Basegranule                                                   | 36-39
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               | 40-43
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | Preroll                                                       | 44-47
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | Granuleshift  | Padding/future use                            | 48-51
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | Message header fields ...                                     | 52-
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

The mime type is provided as a message header field specified in the same way that HTTP header fields are given (e.g. "Content-Type: audio/vorbis"). Further meta information (such as language and screen size) are also included as message header fields. The offset to the message header fields at the beginning of a fisbone packet is included for forward compatibility - to allow further fields to be included into the packet without disrupting the message header field parsing.

The granule rate is again given as a rational number in the same way that presentation time and basetime were provided above.

A further restriction on how to encapsulate Skeleton into Ogg is proposed to allow for easier parsing:

there can only be one Skeleton logical bitstream in a Ogg bitstream
the Skeleton bos page is the very first bos page in the Ogg stream such that it can be identified straight away and decoders don't get confused about it being e.g. Ogg Vorbis without this meta information
the bos pages of all the other logical bistreams come next (a requirement of Ogg)
the secondary header pages of all logical bitstreams come next, including Skeleton's secondary header packets
the Skeleton eos page end the control section of the Ogg stream before any content pages of any of the other logical bitstreams appear
The Xiph Fish Logo is a trademark (™) of the Xiph.Org Foundation.
These pages © 1994 - 2008 Xiph.Org Foundation. Some rights reserved.
]]



