[page 53]
    One of the main problems with the original Fourier transform theory is that it does not take into account that the components of a sound spectrum vary substantially during its course. In this case, the result of the analysis of a sound of, for example, 5 minutes’ duration would inform the various components of the spectrum but would not inform when and how they developed in time. For instance, the analysis of a sound that starts as a flute and changes its timbre to a violin during its course would only display the existence of the components that form both timbres, as if they were heard simultaneously. Short-time Fourier transform implements a solution for this problem. It chops the sound into short segments called windows and analyses each segment sequentially. It normally uses FFT to analyse these windows, and plots the analysis of the individual windows in sequence in order to trace the time evolution of the sound. The result of each window analysis is called an FFT frame. Each FFT frame contains two types of information: a "magnitude spectrum" depicting the amplitudes of every analysed component and a "phase spectrum" showing the initial phase for every frequency component.
    In order to understand the functioning of the FFT mechanism, imagine a filtering process in which a bank of harmonic detectors (e.g. band-pass filters) are tuned to a number of frequencies (refer to Chapter 4 for a brief introduction to filters). The greater the number of harmonic detectors, the more precise the analysis. For instance, if each detector has a bandwidth of 30 Hz, it would be necessary to employ no less than 500 units to cover a band ranging from 30 Hz to 15 000 Hz. Such a bandwidth is appropriate for lower-frequency bands where the value of a semitone is close to 30 Hz. However, this bandwidth value is unnecessarily narrow at higher-frequency bands, where 30 Hz can be as small as one tenth of a semitone. Unfortunately, FFT distributes its harmonic detectors linearly across the audio range. This means that a compromise has to be found in order to prevent unnecessary precision at higher-frequency bands, on the one hand, and poor performance at lower-frequency bands, on the other.



