
e others/数学/编程/术语/non-printing characters.txt

[[[
non-printing characters
Non-Printable Characters
Control character
In computing and telecommunication, a control character or non-printing character is a code point in a character set, that does not represent a written symbol. They are used as in-band signaling to cause effects other than the addition of a symbol to the text. All other characters are mainly printing, printable, or graphic characters, except perhaps for the "space" character

[[

Control Characters

    Difficulty Level : Easy
    Last Updated : 09 Aug, 2020

Control characters are characters that don’t represent printable character yet rather serves to start particular action. Control characters are utilized to execute any action, in contrast, to print printable character on display. They are also utilized as in-band signaling to cause impacts other than expansion of symbol to content.

On the other hand, Printable characters are utilized to show character on screen like Letters, symbols, numbers, and alphanumeric characters. There are different sorts of control characters, including printing control characters, data structuring control characters, and transmission control characters. A large number of such characters are frequently utilized in prefix or suffix sections of barcode and RFID scanners.

A type of control characters were presented in 1870 Baudot code: NUL and DEL. 1901 Murray code included carriage return (CR) and line feed (LF), and different variants of Baudot code included other control characters. The bell character (BEL), which rang bell to signal executives, was likewise early teletype control character.

Control characters are separated into three parts 0:

    ASCII control characters –
    ASCII control character comprises code 0–31 (hex 00–1F). This range is likewise called C0 set. There are two extra controls at 32 and 127 (hex 20 and 7F). ASCII table numbers 0–31 are designated for control characters used to command some peripheral devices, for example, printers. For instance, 12 denotes form feed/new page function. This command instructs printer to go to head of following page.

    This collection of control characters covers numerous applications. There are “Format Effectors” that regulate presentation of plain content. There are “Transmission Controls” for transmission protocols and “Device Controls” to begin, run and stop auxiliary devices.

    There are “Information Separators” that control different bits of information. Additional controls exist for creating cautions, showing end of file/text/code/script, and for handling errors.

    ASCII control characters include wide variety of purposes, such as text layout, communication, and device control, and that’s only tip of iceberg.
    C1 control characters –
    C1 covers 128-159 (hex 80-9F). C1 is essentially for displays and printers. This set is identified with ANSI escape sequences and VT100.

    C1 set was introduced in late 1970s. It is fundamentally intended for controlling monitors and printer gadgets, despite fact that portion of controls delegates different uses also. C1 set is meant for use with C0 set.

    C1 set incorporates “Format effectors” that control horizontal and vertical shift when printing. There are “Presentation controls” for characterizing line breaks or new line. There are “Area definition” controls for structure and form filling.
    ISO 8859 unique characters –
    ISO 8859 is collection of 8-bit character sets. The sets include different Latin, Cyrillic, Greek, Arabic, Hebrew, and Thai characters. ISO 8859 is identified with Windows character sets (“ANSI codepages”), yet these are really unique in relation to one another.

    ISO 8859 has two important characters: Non-Breaking, (NBSP) and Soft Hyphen (SHY). Two of them have control character like attributes, despite fact that they are not really termed control characters in ISO 8859.

Here are some of basic Control Codes :
Caret Notation	Hex Code	Abbreviation	Name	Description
^@	00	NULL	Null	Used to perform media-fill and allow gaps. Also used for padding after any code and to mark end of string, notably in programming language C/C++.
^A	01	STX	Start of Header	Used as first character of head of data broadcast/message. It is usually used as field separator in Apache Hadoop.
^B	02	SOT	Start of Text	Heads text and used to mark end of heading.
^C	03	ETX	End of Text	

Marks end of text. In keyboard input, it is frequently used as Break character to interrupt process.

Notably seen in Unix based command lines, nano editor, etc. as (^C) to break command.
^D	04	EOT	End of Transmission	

Used to mark end of transmission of one or more texts(may involve header, broadcast text, and post-text).

It is also used to mark end-of-file(EOF) on terminal in UNIX based OS.
^E	05	ENQ	Enquiry	Requests for reply from remote terminal, response may include transmitter identification and/or transmitter status.
^F	06	ACK	Acknowledge	This character is sent by receiver as approving response to sender. (Response to ENQ)
^G	07	ACK	Bell	A control character to call for attention. It may control alarm or attention devices. Initially, it was used to play bell sound on terminal.
^H	08	BS	BackSpace	Shifts cursor one character position behind. While in input mode this might delete character to left of cursor. When in output mode, character once written could not be deleted(Primitively).
^I	09	HT	Horizontal Tabulation	Shifts cursor to next determined character position on the same line.
^J	0A	LF	Line Feed	Shifts cursor to equivalent character position of next line. It is used to mark end-of-line(EOF) in UNIX. In DOS/Windows LF is used after CR(Carriage Return) to mark end-of-line.
^K	0B	VT	Vertical Tabulation	Shifts cursor at next line.
^L	0C	FF	Form Feed	

It commands printer to discard current page and to proceed to print at the next one.

More so, it also acts as whitespace in various programming languages,
^M	0D	CR	Carriage Return	Primitively used to move cursor to very first column while staying on the same line/row. In DOS, /Windows, it is used before LF to mark end-of-line(EOF). Enter/Return key corresponds to this character.
^N	0E	SO	Shift Out	Switches to substitute character set.
^O	0F	SI	Shift In	Reverts to general character set after Shift Out.
^P	10	DLE	Data Link Escape	It is used particularly to deliver additional data transmission control functions. Only graphic characters and transmission control characters can be used in DLE sequences.
^Q	11	DC1	Device Control 1 (XON)	A device control character, basically dedicated to turning on or starting essential device. It might also be used to restore any device to basic mode of operation.
^R	12	DC2	Device Control 2	A device control character which is basically dedicated to turning on or starting essential device. It might also be used to set any device to special mode of operation
^S	13	DC3	Device Control 3 (XOFF)	A device control character which is basically dedicated to turning off or stopping an essential device. Also acts as secondary step stop(e.g: wait, pause, stand-by or halt)
^T	14	DC4	Device Control 4	A device control character, basically dedicated to turning off al device. It might also be used for any device control purpose not granted by other DCs.
^U	15	NAK	Negative acknowledge	A control character sent by receiver as negative acknowledgment/response to transmitter. NAK also indicates that an error was identified in last received block.
^V	16	SYN	Synchronous Idle	Used by synchronous transmission network to provide signal from which synchronous rectification may be achieved between data terminal equipment
^W	17	ETB	End of Transmission Block	marks end of transmission segment of data (where data is divided into such segments for transmission)
^X	18	CAN	Cancel	Indicates that data preceding it is in error. Hence, data is to be ignored.
^Y	19	EM	End of Medium	A control character that can be used to find physical end of medium or end of wanted portion of data.
^Z	1A	SUB	Substitute	Used as an alternative for character that has been detected to be invalid or in error. On Unix, ^Z is keyboard signal to suspend process. In DOS/Windows, it is used to mark end of file, in cmd terminal, text files and many scripts.
^[	1B	ESC	Escape	Esc key corresponds to this control character on almost every operating system. Used in many interface to escape from screen, menu, or process.,
^\	1C	FS	File Separator	Used to separate data logically, its specific purpose has to be defined for each application. When used in hierarchical order, it delimits data item called file.
^]	1D	GS	Group Separator	Used to separate data logically; its specific purpose has to be defined for each application. When used in hierarchical order, it delimits data item called group.
^^	1E	RS	Record Separator	Used to separate data logically; its specific purpose has to be defined for each application. When used in hierarchical order, it delimits data item called record.
^_	1F	US	Unit Separator	Used to separate data logically; its specific purpose has to be defined for each application. When used in hierarchical order, it delimits data item called unit.
	20	SP	Space	Space is graphic character. Shifts cursor to move by one character position.
^?	7F	DEL	Delete	The delete control character is last character in ASCII repertoire. It was designed to erase incorrect characters.


]]
[[
https://www.techopedia.com/definition/29785/non-printable-characters

Non-Printable Characters
Last updated: December 22, 2016
Table of Contents
What Does Non-Printable Characters Mean?

Non-printable characters are parts of a character set that do not represent a written symbol or part of the text within a document or code, but rather are there in the context of signal and control in character encoding. They are used to tell word processors and certain applications, like Web browsers, how a document is supposed to look.

Non-printable characters are also known as non-printing characters or control characters.
Advertisement
Techopedia Explains Non-Printable Characters

Non-printable characters are used to indicate certain formatting actions, such as:

    White spaces (considered an invisible graphic)
    Carriage returns
    Tabs
    Line breaks
    Page breaks
    Null characters

For example, the first 32 codes (0 to 31) in ASCII are reserved as control codes for devices like printers and magnetic tape readers/writers. An example is ASCII character 10, which represents "line feed," which tells the printer to advance the paper.

These control characters also are used in data streams, such as the STX and ETX characters, used to transmit ON and OFF commands, as well as the NULL character, which is used to indicate the end of a data stream.
Advertisement

Synonyms

Control Character, Non-Printing Character

]]
]]]
