cr - Candidate Recommendation
input method - 输入法
input code - 输入码
CCS - coded character set | Chinese Character Set

compatibility
    forward compatibility
        Forward compatibility is a design characteristic that allows a system to gracefully accept input intended for a later version of itself. The concept can be applied to entire systems, electrical interfaces, telecommunication signals, data communication protocols, file formats, and computer programming languages.
    backward compatibility
        Backward compatibility is a property of a system, product, or technology that allows for interoperability with an older legacy system, or with input designed for such a system, especially in telecommunications and computing.


reversal

boilerplate
    "Getting Rid of Boilerplate Code" -- "Real_World_Haskell.pdf"

designate
    v. appoint (someone) to a specified position.
    adj. appointed to an office or position but not yet installed.

pseudo
protocol
prototype
protected
private
public

static
dynamic
globals
locals
nonlocals
thread_locals
abstractmethod
property
gallery

heap
stack

push
pop
append
insert
remove

GC
  garbage collector  垃圾回收器
  garbage collection 垃圾回收机制

amortized 摊销
  Finger Tree
  In computer science, a finger tree is a purely functional data structure that can be used to efficiently implement other functional data structures. A finger tree gives amortized constant time access to the "fingers" (leaves) of the tree, which is where data is stored, and concatenation and splitting logarithmic time in the size of the smaller piece. It also stores in each internal node the result of applying some associative operation to its descendants. This "summary" data stored in the internal nodes can be used to provide the functionality of data structures other than trees.

sdist vs wheel
  sdist - Source Distributions
  wheel - pre-built distribution
  view others/数学/编程/python/install-pkg.txt
CFG
  Control-Flow-Graph (CFG)
  Context-Free-Gramma

deprecated
