In graph theory, a bridge (also known as a cut-edge or cut arc or an isthmus) is an edge whose deletion increases the number of connected components.[1] Equivalently, an edge is a bridge if and only if it is not contained in any cycle. A graph is said to be bridgeless if it contains no bridges.


In every undirected graph, there is an equivalence relation on the vertices according to which two vertices are related to each other whenever there are two edge-disjoint paths connecting them. (Every vertex is related to itself via two length-zero paths, which are identical but nevertheless edge-disjoint.) The equivalence classes of this relation are called 2-edge-connected components, and the bridges of the graph are exactly the edges whose endpoints belong to different components. The bridge-block tree of the graph has a vertex for every nontrivial component and an edge for every bridge.[2]





Bridge-finding algorithm
A linear time algorithm for finding the bridges in a graph was described by Robert Tarjan in 1974.[5] It performs the following steps:
Find a spanning forest of 
Create a rooted forest  from the spanning tree
Traverse the forest  in preorder and number the nodes. Parent nodes in the forest now have lower numbers than child nodes.
For each node  in preorder, do:
Compute the number of forest descendants  for this node, by adding one to the sum of its children's descendants.
Compute , the lowest preorder label reachable from  by a path for which all but the last edge stays within the subtree rooted at . This is the minimum of the set consisting of the values of  at child nodes of  and of the preorder labels of nodes reachable from  by edges that do not belong to .
Similarly, compute , the highest preorder label reachable by a path for which all but the last edge stays within the subtree rooted at . This is the maximum of the set consisting of the values of  at child nodes of  and of the preorder labels of nodes reachable from  by edges that do not belong to .
For each node  with parent node , if  and  then the edge from  to  is a bridge.
[edit]Notes