Artificial Intelligence -- A Modern Approach (3ed)(2010)(Stuart Russell) :: Section 17.6. Mechanism Design :: auction

Probably the most important things that an auction mechanism can do is encourage a
sufficient number of bidders to enter the game and discourage them from engaging incollu-sion. Collusion is an unfair or illegal agreement by two or more bidders to manipulate prices. COLLUSION
It can happen in secret backroom deals or tacitly, within the rules of the mechanism.


In general, both the seller and the global utility function benefit if there are more bid-ders, although global utility can suffer if you count the cost of wasted time of bidders that
have no chance of winning. One way to encourage more bidders is to make the mechanism
easier for them. After all, if it requires too much research or computation on the part of the
bidders, they may decide to take their money elsewhere. So it is desirable that the bidders
have adominant strategy.


If, as is usually the case, that strategy involves the STRATEGY-PROOF
bidders revealing their true value,vi,thenitiscalledatruth-revealing,ortruthful, auction; TRUTH-REVEALING
the term incentive compatibleis also used. Therevelation principlestates that any mecha-nism can be transformed into an equivalent truth-revealing mechanism, so part of mechanism
design is finding these equivalent mechanisms.


A disadvantage (from the point of view of the seller) of the ascending-bid auction is
that it can discourage competition. Suppose that in a bid for cell-phone spectrum there is
one advantaged company that everyone agrees would be able to leverage existing customers
and infrastructure, and thus can make a larger profit than anyone else. Potential competitors
can see that they have no chance in an ascending-bid auction, because the advantaged com-pany can always bid higher. Thus, the competitors may not enter at all, and the advantaged
company ends up winning at the reserve price.


An alternative mechanism, which requires much less communication, is thesealed-bid auction. Each bidder makes a single bid and communicates it to the auctioneer, without
SEALED-BID
AUCTION
the other bidders seeing it.

A small change in the mechanism for sealed-bid auctions produces thesealed-bid
second-price auction, also known as aVickrey auction.

Although the second-price auction is truth-revealing, it turns out that extending the idea
to multiple goods and using a next-price auction is not truth-revealing.

Aggarwalet al.(2006) show that there is a unique truthful auction
mechanism for this multislot problem, in which the winner of slotjpays the full price for
slotjjust for those additional clicks that are available at slot jand not at slotj+1.The
winner pays the price for the lower slot for the remaining clicks.

